The Fulton County Grand Jury said Friday an investigation of Atlanta's recent primary election produced `` no evidence '' that any irregularities took place .
The jury further said in term-end presentments that the City Executive Committee , which had over-all charge of the election , `` deserves the praise and thanks of the City of Atlanta '' for the manner in which the election was conducted .
The September-October term jury had been charged by Fulton Superior Court Judge Durwood Pye to investigate reports of possible `` irregularities '' in the hard-fought primary which was won by Mayor-nominate Ivan Allen Jr. .
`` Only a relative handful of such reports was received '' , the jury said , `` considering the widespread interest in the election , the number of voters and the size of this city '' .
The jury said it did find that many of Georgia's registration and election laws `` are outmoded or inadequate and often ambiguous '' .
It recommended that Fulton legislators act `` to have these laws studied and revised to the end of modernizing and improving them '' .
The grand jury commented on a number of other topics , among them the Atlanta and Fulton County purchasing departments which it said `` are well operated and follow generally accepted practices which inure to the best interest of both governments '' .
Merger proposed
The City Purchasing Department , the jury said , `` is lacking in experienced clerical personnel as a result of city personnel policies '' .
Implementation of Georgia's automobile title law was also recommended by the outgoing jury .
It urged that the next Legislature `` provide enabling funds and re-set the effective date so that an orderly implementation of the law may be effected '' .
The grand jury took a swipe at the State Welfare Department's handling of federal funds granted for child welfare services in foster homes .
`` This is one of the major items in the Fulton County general assistance program '' , the jury said , but the State Welfare Department `` has seen fit to distribute these funds through the welfare departments of all the counties in the state with the exception of Fulton County , which receives none of this money .
The jurors said they realize `` a proportionate distribution of these funds might disable this program in our less populous counties '' .
Nevertheless , `` we feel that in the future Fulton County should receive some portion of these available funds '' , the jurors said .
The jury also commented on the Fulton ordinary's court which has been under fire for its practices in the appointment of appraisers , guardians and administrators and the awarding of fees and compensation .
Wards protected
`` These actions should serve to protect in fact and in effect the court's wards from undue costs and its appointed and elected servants from unmeritorious criticisms '' , the jury said .
Regarding Atlanta's new multi-million-dollar airport , the jury recommended `` that when the new management takes charge Jan. 1 the airport be operated in a manner that will eliminate political influences '' .
The jury did not elaborate , but it added that `` there should be periodic surveillance of the pricing practices of the concessionaires for the purpose of keeping the prices reasonable '' .
Ask jail deputies
The jury praised the administration and operation of the Atlanta Police Department , the Fulton Tax Commissioner's Office , the Bellwood and Alpharetta prison farms , Grady Hospital and the Fulton Health Department .
Mayor William B. Hartsfield filed suit for divorce from his wife , Pearl Williams Hartsfield , in Fulton Superior Court Friday .
The couple was married Aug. 2 , 1913 .
Attorneys for the mayor said that an amicable property settlement has been agreed upon .
The petition listed the mayor's occupation as `` attorney '' and his age as 71 .
The petition said that the couple has not lived together as man and wife for more than a year .
The Hartsfield home is at 637 E. Pelham Rd. Aj .
Henry L. Bowden was listed on the petition as the mayor's attorney .
Hartsfield has been mayor of Atlanta , with exception of one brief interlude , since 1937 .
The mayor's present term of office expires Jan. 1 .
Georgia Republicans are getting strong encouragement to enter a candidate in the 1962 governor's race , a top official said Wednesday .
Robert Snodgrass , state GOP chairman , said a meeting held Tuesday night in Blue Ridge brought enthusiastic responses from the audience .
State Party Chairman James W. Dorsey added that enthusiasm was picking up for a state rally to be held Sept. 8 in Savannah at which newly elected Texas Sen. John Tower will be the featured speaker .
In the Blue Ridge meeting , the audience was warned that entering a candidate for governor would force it to take petitions out into voting precincts to obtain the signatures of registered voters .
Despite the warning , there was a unanimous vote to enter a candidate , according to Republicans who attended .
When the crowd was asked whether it wanted to wait one more term to make the race , it voted no -- and there were no dissents .
The largest hurdle the Republicans would have to face is a state law which says that before making a first race , one of two alternative courses must be taken : 1
Sam Caldwell , State Highway Department public relations director , resigned Tuesday to work for Lt. Gov. Garland Byrd's campaign .
Caldwell's resignation had been expected for some time .
The Georgia Legislature will wind up its 1961 session Monday and head for home -- where some of the highway bond money it approved will follow shortly .
Before adjournment Monday afternoon , the Senate is expected to approve a study of the number of legislators allotted to rural and urban areas to determine what adjustments should be made .
Gov. Vandiver is expected to make the traditional visit to both chambers as they work toward adjournment .
Construction bonds
The bond issue will go to the state courts for a friendly test suit to test the validity of the act , and then the sales will begin and contracts let for repair work on some of Georgia's most heavily traveled highways .
A Highway Department source said there also is a plan there to issue some $3 million to $4 million worth of Rural Roads Authority bonds for rural road construction work .
A revolving fund
Vandiver opened his race for governor in 1958 with a battle in the Legislature against the issuance of $50 million worth of additional rural roads bonds proposed by then Gov. Marvin Griffin .
The Highway Department source told The Constitution , however , that Vandiver has not been consulted yet about the plans to issue the new rural roads bonds .
Schley County Rep. B. D. Pelham will offer a resolution Monday in the House to rescind the body's action of Friday in voting itself a $10 per day increase in expense allowances .
Pelham said Sunday night there was research being done on whether the `` quickie '' vote on the increase can be repealed outright or whether notice would have to first be given that reconsideration of the action would be sought .
While emphasizing that technical details were not fully worked out , Pelham said his resolution would seek to set aside the privilege resolution which the House voted through 87-31 .
A similar resolution passed in the Senate by a vote of 29-5 .
Pelham pointed out that Georgia voters last November rejected a constitutional amendment to allow legislators to vote on pay raises for future Legislature sessions .
A veteran Jackson County legislator will ask the Georgia House Monday to back federal aid to education , something it has consistently opposed in the past .
Rep. Mac Barber of Commerce is asking the House in a privilege resolution to `` endorse increased federal support for public education , provided that such funds be received and expended '' as state funds .
Barber , who is in his 13th year as a legislator , said there `` are some members of our congressional delegation in Washington who would like to see it ( the resolution ) passed '' .
The resolution , which Barber tossed into the House hopper Friday , will be formally read Monday .
The new school superintendent is Harry Davis , a veteran agriculture teacher , who defeated Felix Bush , a school principal and chairman of the Miller County Democratic Executive Committee .
Davis received 1,119 votes in Saturday's election , and Bush got 402 .
`` This was the coolest , calmest election I ever saw '' , Colquitt Policeman Tom Williams said .
The campaign leading to the election was not so quiet , however .
The former county school superintendent , George P. Callan , shot himself to death March 18 , four days after he resigned his post in a dispute with the county school board .
During the election campaign , both candidates , Davis and Bush , reportedly received anonymous telephone calls .
Many local citizens feared that there would be irregularities at the polls , and Williams got himself a permit to carry a gun and promised an orderly election .
Sheriff Felix Tabb said the ordinary apparently made good his promise .
`` Everything went real smooth '' , the sheriff said .
Austin , Texas
Daniel personally led the fight for the measure , which he had watered down considerably since its rejection by two previous Legislatures , in a public hearing before the House Committee on Revenue and Taxation .
Under committee rules , it went automatically to a subcommittee for one week .
Daniel termed `` extremely conservative '' his estimate that it would produce 17 million dollars to help erase an anticipated deficit of 63 million dollars at the end of the current fiscal year next Aug. 31 .
He told the committee the measure would merely provide means of enforcing the escheat law which has been on the books `` since Texas was a republic '' .
The bill , which Daniel said he drafted personally , would force banks , insurance firms , pipeline companies and other corporations to report such property to the state treasurer .
Dewey Lawrence , a Tyler lawyer representing the Texas Bankers Association , sounded the opposition keynote when he said it would force banks to violate their contractual obligations with depositors and undermine the confidence of bank customers .
`` If you destroy confidence in banks , you do something to the economy '' , he said .
Rep. Charles E. Hughes of Sherman , sponsor of the bill , said a failure to enact it would amount `` to making a gift out of the taxpayers' pockets to banks , insurance and pipeline companies '' .
His contention was denied by several bankers , including Scott Hudson of Sherman , Gaynor B. Jones of Houston , J. B. Brady of Harlingen and Howard Cox of Austin .
Cox argued that the bill is `` probably unconstitutional '' since , he said , it would impair contracts .
He also complained that not enough notice was given on the hearing , since the bill was introduced only last Monday .
The bill is designed to provide special schooling for more deaf students in the scholastic age at a reduced cost to the state .
There was no debate as the Senate passed the bill on to the House .
It would authorize the Texas Education Agency to establish county-wide day schools for the deaf in counties of 300,000 or more population , require deaf children between 6 and 13 years of age to attend the day schools , permitting older ones to attend the residential Texas School for the Deaf here .
Operating budget for the day schools in the five counties of Dallas , Harris , Bexar , Tarrant and El Paso would be $451,500 , which would be a savings of $157,460 yearly after the first year's capital outlay of $88,000 was absorbed , Parkhouse told the Senate .
The TEA estimated there would be 182 scholastics to attend the day school in Dallas County , saving them from coming to Austin to live in the state deaf school .
Dallas may get to hear a debate on horse race parimutuels soon between Reps. V. E. ( Red ) Berry and Joe Ratcliff .
While details are still to be worked out , Ratcliff said he expects to tell home folks in Dallas why he thinks Berry's proposed constitutional amendment should be rejected .
`` We're getting more ' pro ' letters than ' con ' on horse race betting '' , said Ratcliff .
Rep. Berry , an ex-gambler from San Antonio , got elected on his advocacy of betting on the ponies .
The house passed finally , and sent to the Senate , a bill extending the State Health Department's authority to give planning assistance to cities .
The senate quickly whipped through its meager fare of House bills approved by committees , passing the three on the calendar .
The third amended the enabling act for creation of the Lamar county Hospital District , for which a special constitutional amendment previously was adopted .
Without dissent , senators passed a bill by Sen. A. R. Schwartz of Galveston authorizing establishment in the future of a school for the mentally retarded in the Gulf Coast district .
Two tax revision bills were passed .
The other bill , by Sen. A. M. Aikin Jr. of Paris , would relieve real estate brokers , who pay their own annual licensing fee , from the $12 annual occupation license on brokers in such as stocks and bonds .
Natural gas public utility companies would be given the right of eminent domain , under a bill by Sen. Frank Owen 3 , of El Paso , to acquire sites for underground storage reservoirs for gas .
Marshall Formby of Plainview , former chairman of the Texas Highway Commission , suggested a plan to fill by appointment future vacancies in the Legislature and Congress , eliminating the need for costly special elections .
Under Formby's plan , an appointee would be selected by a board composed of the governor , lieutenant governor , speaker of the House , attorney general and chief justice of the Texas Supreme Court .
An adverse vote of 81 to 65 kept in the State Affairs Committee a bill which would order the referendum on the April 4 ballot , when Texas votes on a U.S. senator .
Rep. Wesley Roberts of Seminole , sponsor of the poll idea , said that further delay in the committee can kill the bill .
The West Texan reported that he had finally gotten Chairman Bill Hollowell of the committee to set it for public hearing on Feb. 22 .
Opponents generally argued that the ballot couldn't give enough information about tax proposals for the voters to make an intelligent choice .
All Dallas members voted with Roberts , except Rep. Bill Jones , who was absent .
Rep. James Cotten of Weatherford insisted that a water development bill passed by the Texas House of Representatives was an effort by big cities like Dallas and Fort Worth to cover up places like Paradise , a Wise County hamlet of 250 people .
When the shouting ended , the bill passed , 114 to 4 , sending it to the Senate , where a similar proposal is being sponsored by Sen. George Parkhouse of Dallas .
Most of the fire was directed by Cotten against Dallas and Sen. Parkhouse .
Cotten construed this as a veiled effort by Parkhouse to help Dallas and other large cities get money which Cotten felt could better be spent providing water for rural Texas .
Statements by other legislators that Dallas is paying for all its water program by local bonds , and that less populous places would benefit most by the pending bill , did not sway Cotten's attack .
The bill's defenders were mostly small-town legislators like J. W. Buchanan of Dumas , Eligio ( Kika ) De La Garza of Mission , Sam F. Collins of Newton and Joe Chapman of Sulphur Springs .
`` This is a poor boy's bill '' , said Chapman .
Rep. Henry C. Grover , who teaches history in the Houston public schools , would reduce from 24 to 12 semester hours the so-called `` teaching methods '' courses required to obtain a junior or senior high school teaching certificate .
Grover also would require junior-senior high teachers to have at least 24 semester hours credit in the subject they are teaching .
`` A person with a master's degree in physics , chemistry , math or English , yet who has not taken Education courses , is not permitted to teach in the public schools '' , said Grover .
College teachers in Texas are not required to have the Education courses .
Fifty-three of the 150 representatives immediately joined Grover as co-signers of the proposal .
Dr. Clark will succeed Dr. J. R. McLemore , who will retire at the close of the present school term .
Dr. Clark holds an earned Doctor of Education degree from the University of Oklahoma .
In addition , Dr. Clark has studied at Rhode Island State College and Massachusetts Institute of Technology .
During his college career , Dr. Clark was captain of his basketball team and was a football letterman .
Dr. Clark has served as teacher and principal in Oklahoma high schools , as teacher and athletic director at Raymondville , Texas , High School , as an instructor at the University of Oklahoma , and as an associate professor of education at Fort Hays , Kan. , State College .
State and federal legislation against racial discrimination in employment was called for yesterday in a report of a `` blue ribbon '' citizens committee on the aid to dependent children program .
The report , culminating a year long study of the ADC program in Cook county by a New York City welfare consulting firm , listed 10 long range recommendations designed to reduce the soaring ADC case load .
`` Must solve problem ''
`` We must solve the problems which have forced these people to depend upon ADC for subsistence '' , Martin said .
The volume of ADC cases will decrease , Martin reported , when the community is able to deal effectively with two problems : Relatively limited skills and discrimination in employment because of color .
Calls for extension
Extension of the ADC program to all children in need living with any relatives , including both parents , as a means of preserving family unity .
Research projects as soon as possible on the causes and prevention of dependency and illegitimacy .
Several defendants in the Summerdale police burglary trial made statements indicating their guilt at the time of their arrest , Judge James B. Parsons was told in Criminal court yesterday .
The disclosure by Charles Bellows , chief defense counsel , startled observers and was viewed as the prelude to a quarrel between the six attorneys representing the eight former policemen now on trial .
Bellows made the disclosure when he asked Judge Parsons to grant his client , Alan Clements , 30 , a separate trial .
Fears prejudicial aspects
Judge Parsons leaned over the bench and inquired , `` You mean some of the defendants made statements admitting this '' ? ?
`` Yes , your honor '' , replied Bellows .
The President spent much of the week-end at his summer home on Cape Cod writing the first drafts of portions of the address with the help of White House aids in Washington with whom he talked by telephone .
Shortly after the Chief Executive returned to Washington in midmorning from Hyannis Port , Mass. , a White House spokesman said the address text still had `` quite a way to go '' toward completion .
Decisions are made
Salinger said the work President Kennedy , advisers , and members of his staff were doing on the address involved composition and wording , rather than last minute decisions on administration plans to meet the latest Berlin crisis precipitated by Russia's demands and proposals for the city .
The last 10 cases in the investigation of the Nov. 8 election were dismissed yesterday by Acting Judge John M. Karns , who charged that the prosecution obtained evidence `` by unfair and fundamentally illegal means '' .
Karns said that the cases involved a matter `` of even greater significance than the guilt or innocence '' of the 50 persons .
Karns' ruling pertained to eight of the 10 cases .
Issue jury subpoenas
Mayer Goldberg , attorney for election judges in the 58th precinct of the 23d ward , argued this procedure constituted intimidation .
Karns said it was a `` wrongful act '' for Wexler to take statements `` privately and outside of the grand jury room '' .
`` Actually , the abuse of the process may have constituted a contempt of the Criminal court of Cook county , altho vindication of the authority of that court is not the function of this court '' , said Karns , who is a City judge in East St. Louis sitting in Cook County court .
Faced seven cases
The cases involved judges in the 33d , 24th , and 42d precincts of the 31st ward , the 21st and 28th precincts of the 29th ward , the 18th precinct of the 4th ward , and the 9th precinct of the 23d ward .
The case of the judges in the 58th precinct of the 23d ward had been heard previously and taken under advisement by Karns .
Claims precedent lacking
The President , in a special message to Congress , tied in with his aged care plan requests for large federal grants to finance medical and dental scholarships , build 20 new medical and 20 new dental schools , and expand child health care and general medical research .
The aged care plan , similar to one the President sponsored last year as a senator , a fight on Capitol hill .
Cost up to $37 a year
The social security payroll tax is now 6 per cent -- 3 per cent on each worker and employer -- on the first $4,800 of pay per year .
The payroll tax would actually rise to 7.5 per cent starting Jan. 1 , 1963 , if the plan is approved , because the levy is already scheduled to go up by 1 per cent on that date to pay for other social security costs .
Outlays would increase
Other parts of the Kennedy health plan would entail federal grants of 750 million to 1 billion dollars over the next 10 years .
Nursing home care
The President noted that Congress last year passed a law providing grants to states to help pay medical bills of the needy aged .
Calls proposal modest
`` This is a very modest proposal cut to meet absolutely essential needs '' , he said , `` and with sufficient ' deductible ' requirements to discourage any malingering or unnecessary overcrowding of our hospitals .
`` This is not a program of socialized medicine .
Wouldn't pay doctors
Apart from the aged care plan the President's most ambitious and costly proposals were for federal scholarships , and grants to build or enlarge medical and dental schools .
The President said the nation's 92 medical and 47 dental schools cannot now handle the student load needed to meet the rising need for health care .
Contributions to schools
In addition , the government would pay a $1,000 `` cost of education '' grant to the schools for each $1,500 in scholarship grants .
The President recommended federal `` matching grants '' totaling 700 million dollars in 10 years for constructing new medical and dental schools or enlarging the capacity of existing ones .
More for nursing homes
He further proposed grants of an unspecified sum for experimental hospitals .
In the child health field , the President said he will recommend later an increase in funds for programs under the children's bureau .
Asks research funds
For medical research he asked a 20 million dollar a year increase , from 30 to 50 millions , in matching grants for building research facilities .
The President said his proposals combine the `` indispensable elements in a sound health program -- people , knowledge , services , facilities , and the means to pay for them '' .
Reaction as expected
Senate Republican Leader Dirksen ( Ill. ) and House Republican Leader Charles Halleck ( Ind. ) said the message did not persuade them to change their opposition to compulsory medical insurance .
House Speaker Sam Rayburn ( D. , Tex. ) called the Kennedy program `` a mighty fine thing '' , but made no prediction on its fate in the House .
Only 11 senators were on the floor and there was no record vote .
Customary Senate rules were ignored in order to speed approval of the Negro leader as administrator of the housing and home finance agency .
In the last eight years , all Presidential appointments , including those of cabinet rank , have been denied immediate action because of a Senate rule requiring at least a 24 hour delay after they are reported to the floor .
Enforce by demand
Oslo
This has been a working session of an organization that , by its very nature , can only proceed along its route step by step and without dramatic changes .
This atmosphere of understanding has been particularly noticeable where relations are concerned between the `` colonialist '' powers and those who have never , or not for a long time , had such problems .
Explosion avoided
Canada alone has been somewhat out of step with the Oslo attempt to get all the allied cars back on the track behind the NATO locomotive .
On the negative side of the balance sheet must be set some disappointment that the United States leadership has not been as much in evidence as hoped for .
Exploratory mood
The impression has nevertheless been given during these three days , despite Mr. Rusk's personal popularity , that the United States delegation came to Oslo in a somewhat tentative and exploratory frame of mind , more ready to listen and learn than to enunciate firm policy on a global scale with detailed application to individual danger spots .
The Secretary of State himself , in his first speech , gave some idea of the tremendous march of events inside and outside the United States that has preoccupied the new administration in the past four months .
But where the core of NATO is concerned , the Secretary of State has not only reiterated the United States' profound attachment to the alliance , `` cornerstone '' of its foreign policy , but has announced that five nuclear submarines will eventually be at NATO's disposal in European waters .
The Secretary of State has also solemnly repeated a warning to the Soviet Union that the United States will not stand for another setback in Berlin , an affirmation once again taken up by the council as a whole .
Conflict surveyed
The annual spring meeting has given an impetus in three main directions : more , deeper , and more timely political consultation within the alliance , the use of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ( when ratified ) as a method of coordinating aid to the underdeveloped countries , and the need for strengthening conventional forces as well as the maintenance of the nuclear deterrent .
This increase in the `` threshold '' , as the conventional forces strengthening is called , will prove one of the alliance's most difficult problems in the months to come .
There is little optimism here that the Communists will be any more docile at the conference table than they were in military actions on the ground in Laos .
The United States , State Department officials explain , now is mainly interested in setting up an international inspection system which will prevent Laos from being used as a base for Communist attacks on neighboring Thailand and South Viet Nam .
They count on the aid of the neutral countries attending the Geneva conference to achieve this .
The United States hopes that any future Lao Cabinet would not become Communist dominated .
Policies modified
This is another of the modifications of policy on Laos that the Kennedy administration has felt compelled to make .
Its spokesmen insist that there has not been time enough to institute reforms in military and economic aid policies in the critical areas .
But with the months moving on -- and the immediate confrontations with the Communists showing no gain for the free world -- the question arises :
How effective have Kennedy administration first foreign policy decisions been in dealing with Communist aggression ? ?
Former Vice-President Richard M. Nixon in Detroit called for a firmer and tougher policy toward the Soviet Union .
GOP restrained
One Republican senator told this correspondent that he was constantly being asked why he didn't attack the Kennedy administration on this score .
The Republicans some weeks ago served notice through Senator Thruston B. Morton ( R ) of Kentucky , chairman of the Republican National Committee , that the Kennedy administration would be held responsible if the outcome in Laos was a coalition government susceptible of Communist domination .
Kennedy administration policies also have been assailed now from another direction by 70 Harvard , Boston University , Brandeis , and Massachusetts Institute of Technology educators .
Detente urged
Mr. Nixon , for his part , would oppose intervention in Cuba without specific provocation .
Until the Cuban fiasco and the Communist military victories in Laos , almost any observer would have said that President Kennedy had blended a program that respected , generally , the opinions voiced both by Mr. Nixon and the professors .
Aid plans revamped
Strenuous efforts were made to remove pin pricking from administration statements .
Foreign aid programs were revamped to give greater emphasis to economic aid and to encourage political reform in recipient nations .
In Laos , the administration looked at the Eisenhower administration efforts to show determination by sailing a naval fleet into Southeast Asian waters as a useless gesture .
Again and again it asked the Communists to `` freeze '' the military situation in Laos .
And after several correspondents went into Pathet Lao territory and exposed the huge build-up , administration spokesmen acclaimed them for performing a `` great service '' and laid the matter before the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization .
SEATO was steamed up and prepared contingency plans for coping with the military losses in Laos .
There was the further complication that the administration had very early concluded that Laos was ill suited to be an ally , unlike its more determined neighbors , Thailand and South Viet Nam .
The administration declared itself in favor of a neutralized Laos .
There certainly was not any more energy displayed after it was clear the United States would not back the pro-Western government to the hilt .
If the administration ever had any ideas that it could find an acceptable alternative to Prince Souvanna Phouma , whom it felt was too trusting of Communists , it gradually had to relinquish them .
One factor was the statement of Senator J. W. Fulbright ( D ) of Arkansas , chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee .
The President is deeply concerned over this problem and its effect upon the `` vitality of the nation '' .
In an important assertion of national leadership in this field , he has issued an executive order establishing the President's committee on Juvenile Delinquency and Crime , to be supported and assisted by a Citizens Advisory Council of recognized authorities on juvenile problems .
The President asks the support and cooperation of Congress in his efforts through the enactment of legislation to provide federal grants to states for specified efforts in combating this disturbing crime trend .
Offenses multiply
Simultaneously the President announced Thursday the appointment of David L. Hackett , a special assistant to the Attorney General , as executive director of the new Committee on Juvenile Delinquency and Youth Crime .
His sense of urgency in this matter stems from the fact that court cases and juvenile arrests have more than doubled since 1948 , each year showing an increase in offenders .
Among arrests reported by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 1959 , about half for burglary and larceny involved persons under 18 years of age .
East Providence should organize its civil defense setup and begin by appointing a full-time director , Raymond H. Hawksley , the present city CD head , believes .
Mr. Hawksley said yesterday he would be willing to go before the city council `` or anyone else locally '' to outline his proposal at the earliest possible time .
East Providence now has no civil defense program .
Noting that President Kennedy has handed the Defense Department the major responsibility for the nation's civil defense program , Mr. Hawksley said the federal government would pay half the salary of a full-time local director .
He expressed the opinion the city could hire a CD director for about $3,500 a year and would only have to put up half that amount on a matching fund basis to defray the salary costs .
Mr. Hawksley said he believed there are a number of qualified city residents who would be willing to take the full-time CD job .
Along with a director , the city should provide a CD headquarters so that pertinent information about the local organization would be centralized .
One advantage that would come to the city in having a full-time director , he said , is that East Providence would become eligible to apply to the federal government for financial aid in purchasing equipment needed for a sound civil defense program .
Matching funds also can be obtained for procurement of such items as radios , sirens and rescue trucks , he said .
Mr. Hawksley believes that East Providence could use two more rescue trucks , similar to the CD vehicle obtained several years ago and now detailed to the Central Fire Station .
He would assign one of the rescue trucks to the Riverside section of the city and the other to the Rumford area .
Speaking of the present status of civil defense in the city , Mr. Hawksley said he would be willing to bet that not more than one person in a hundred would know what to do or where to go in the event of an enemy attack .
The Narragansett Race Track grounds is one assembly point , he said , and a drive-in theater in Seekonk would be another .
Mr. Hawksley said he was not critical of city residents for not knowing what to do or where to assemble in case of an air attack .
Such vital information , he said , has to be made available to the public frequently and at regular intervals for residents to know .
If the city council fails to consider appointment of a full-time CD director , Mr. Hawksley said , then he plans to call a meeting early in September so that a civil defense organization will be developed locally .
One of the first things he would do , he said , would be to organize classes in first aid .
Rhode Island is going to examine its Sunday sales law with possible revisions in mind .
Governor Notte said last night he plans to name a committee to make the study and come up with recommendations for possible changes in time for the next session of the General Assembly .
The governor's move into the so-called `` blue law '' controversy came in the form of a letter to Miss Mary R. Grant , deputy city clerk of Central Falls .
Mr. Notte was responding to a resolution adopted by the Central Falls City Council on July 10 and sent to the state house by Miss Grant .
While the city council suggested that the Legislative Council might perform the review , Mr. Notte said that instead he will take up the matter with Atty. Gen. J. Joseph Nugent to get `` the benefit of his views '' .
`` I would expect the proposed committee to hold public hearings '' , Mr. Notte said , `` to obtain the views of the general public and religious , labor and special-interest groups affected by these laws '' .
The governor wrote Miss Grant that he has been concerned for some time `` with the continuous problem which confronts our local and state law enforcement officers as a result of the laws regulating Sunday sales '' .
The attorney general has advised local police that it is their duty to enforce the blue laws .
There has been more activity across the state line in Massachusetts than in Rhode Island in recent weeks toward enforcement of the Sunday sales laws .
The Central Falls City Council expressed concern especially that more foods be placed on the eligible list and that neighborhood grocery and variety stores be allowed to do business on Sunday .
The only day they `` have a chance to compete with large supermarkets is on Sunday '' , the council's resolution said .
The council advised the governor that `` large supermarkets , factory outlets and department stores not be allowed to do business '' on Sunday .
Liberals and conservatives in both parties -- Democratic and Republican -- should divorce themselves and form two independent parties , George H. Reama , nationally known labor-management expert , said here yesterday .
Mr. Reama told the Rotary Club of Providence at its luncheon at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel that about half of the people in the country want the `` welfare '' type of government and the other half want a free enterprise system .
He said he was `` confessing that I was a member of the Socialist Party in 1910 '' .
`` That was before I studied law .
He said that when he was a Socialist in 1910 , the party called for government operation of all utilities and the pooling of all resources .
Mr. Reama , who retired as vice president of the American Screw Co. in 1955 said , `` Both parties in the last election told us that we need a five per cent growth in the gross national product -- but neither told us how to achieve it '' .
He said he favors wage increases for workers -- `` but manufacturers are caught in a profit squeeze '' -- and raises should only come when the public is conditioned to higher prices , he added .
Indicating the way in which he has turned his back on his 1910 philosophy , Mr. Reama said : `` A Socialist is a person who believes in dividing everything he does not own '' .
A petition bearing the signatures of more than 1,700 Johnston taxpayers was presented to the town council last night as what is hoped will be the first step in obtaining a home rule charter for the town .
William A. Martinelli , chairman of the Citizens Group of Johnston , transferred the petitions from his left hand to his right hand after the council voted to accept them at the suggestion of Council President Raymond Fortin Sr. .
The law which governs home rule charter petitions states that they must be referred to the chairman of the board of canvassers for verification of the signatures within 10 days and Mr. Martinelli happens to hold that post .
Mr. Martinelli explained that there should be more than enough signatures to assure the scheduling of a vote on the home rule charter and possible election of a nine member charter commission within 70 days .
A difference of opinion arose between Mr. Martinelli and John P. Bourcier , town solicitor , over the exact manner in which the vote is handled .
Mr. Bourcier said that he had consulted several Superior Court justices in the last week and received opinions favoring both procedures .
Mr. Martinelli said yesterday that the Citizens Group of Johnston will meet again July 24 to plan further strategy in the charter movement .
`` After inspiring this , I think we should certainly follow through on it '' , he declared .
He said he would not be surprised if some of the more than 30 members of the group are interested in running on the required non-partisan ballot for posts on the charter commission .
`` Our most immediate goal is to increase public awareness of the movement '' , he indicated , `` and to tell them what this will mean for the town '' .
Some opposition to the home rule movement started to be heard yesterday , with spokesmen for the town's insurgent Democratic leadership speaking out against the home rule charter in favor of the model municipal league charter .
Misunderstanding of the real meaning of a home rule charter was cited as a factor which has caused the Citizens Group to obtain signatures under what were termed `` false pretenses '' .
Action on a new ordinance permitting motorists who plead guilty to minor traffic offenses to pay fines at the local police station may be taken at Monday's special North Providence Town Council meeting .
Council president Frank SanAntonio said yesterday he may ask the council to formally request Town Solicitor Michael A. Abatuno to draft the ordinance .
At the last session of the General Assembly , the town was authorized to adopt such an ordinance as a means of making enforcement of minor offenses more effective .
At present all offenses must be taken to Sixth District Court for disposition .
Plainfield
Mitchell was for using it , Jones against , and Sen. Wayne Dumont Jr. R-Warren did not mention it when the three Republican gubernatorial candidates spoke at staggered intervals before 100 persons at the Park Hotel .
The controversial remark was first made Sunday by Hughes at a Westfield Young Democratic Club cocktail party at the Scotch Plains Country Club .
Hughes said Monday , `` It is the apparent intention of the Republican Party to campaign on the carcass of what they call Eisenhower Republicanism , but the heart stopped beating and the lifeblood congealed after Eisenhower retired .
Mitchell said the statement should become a major issue in the primary and the fall campaign .
Mitchell said the closeness of the outcome in last fall's Presidential election did not mean that Eisenhower Republicanism was a dead issue .
Regrets attack
The audience last night did not respond with either applause or boos to mention of Hughes' remark .
Dumont spoke on the merit of having an open primary .
Decries joblessness
`` But I am not in favor of a sales or state income tax at this time '' , Mitchell said .
Jones , unhappy that the candidates were limited to eight minutes for a speech and no audience questions , saved his barbs for Mitchell .
`` He calls for help while saying he is against centralization , but you can't have it both ways '' , Jones said .
Defends Ike
`` I think that all Americans will resent deeply the statements made about President Eisenhower by Richard J. Hughes .
`` I find it hard to understand how anyone seeking a position in public life could demonstrate such poor judgment and bad taste .
`` Such a vicious statement can only have its origin in the desire of a new political candidate to try to make his name known by condemning a man of world stature .
Sees Jones ahead
Sandman told the gathering that reports from workers on a local level all over the state indicate that Jones will be chosen the Republican Party's nominee with the largest majority given a candidate in recent years .
Sandman said : `` The announcement that Sen. Clifford Case Aj , has decided to spend all his available time campaigning for Mr. Mitchell is a dead giveaway .
`` We have witnessed in this campaign the effort to project Mr. Mitchell as the image of a unity candidate from Washington .
`` We are now witnessing an effort to transfer to Mr. Mitchell some of the glow of Sen. Case's candidacy of last year .
Sandman announced the appointment of Mrs. Harriet Copeland Greenfield of 330 Woodland Ave. , Westfield , as state chairman of the Republican Women for Jones Committee .
Mrs. Greenfield is president of the Westfield Women's Republican Club and is a Westfield county committeewoman .
County Supervisor Weldon R. Sheets , who is a candidate for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination , today called for an end to paper ballots in those counties in the state which still use them .
Sheets said that his proposed law would offer state financing aid for the purchase of voting machines , enabling counties to repay the loan over a 10-year period without interest or charge .
Although he pointed out that mandatory legislation impinging on home rule is basically distasteful , he added that the vital interest in election results transcended county lines .
The candidacy of Mayor James J. Sheeran of West Orange , for the Republican nomination for sheriff of Essex County , was supported today by Edward W. Roos , West Orange public safety commissioner .
Sheeran , a lawyer and former FBI man is running against the Republican organization's candidate , Freeholder William MacDonald , for the vacancy left by the resignation of Neil Duffy , now a member of the State Board of Tax Appeals .
`` My experience as public safety commissioner '' , Roos said , `` has shown me that the office of sheriff is best filled by a man with law enforcement experience , and preferably one who is a lawyer .
A citation from Conservation Commissioner Salvatore A. Bontempo credits his supervision with a reduction in the number of forest fires in the state .
Seidel joined the department in 1925 as a division fire warden after graduation in 1921 from the University of Michigan with a degree in forestry and employment with private lumber companies .
Under his supervision , the state fire-fighting agency developed such techniques as plowing of fire lines and established a fleet of tractor plows and tractor units for fire fighting .
He also expanded and modernized the radio system with a central control station .
He promised nearly 200 Democratic county committee members at the meeting in the Puddingstone Inn : `` When I come back here after the November election you'll think , ' You're my man -- you're the kind of governor we're glad we elected ' '' .
He said , `` We Democrats must resolve our issues on the test of what is right and just , and not what is expedient at the time '' .
Attacks Republicans
`` We'll take the truth to the people , and the people will like the truth and elect their candidate and party in November '' .
He said , `` You can see signs of the Republicans' feeble attack on the Meyner administration .
He urged New Jersey to `` become a full partner in the courageous actions of President Kennedy '' .
`` We must keep the bloodstream of New Jersey clean '' , the former Superior Court judge said .
Calling the Democrats the `` party that lives , breathes and thinks for the good of the people '' , Hughes asked , `` a representative Democratic vote in the primary for a springboard toward victory in November '' .
Hughes supported Gov. Meyner's `` Green Acres '' plan for saving large tracts of open land from the onrush of urban development .
Conservation plan
Hughes said , `` This is not a plan to conquer space -- but to conserve it '' , pointing out the state population has increased 125,000 each year since 1950 .
Hughes would not comment on tax reforms or other issues in which the Republican candidates are involved .
The outgoing members , whose four-year terms will expire a week after the April 18 primary election , received carved wooden elephants , complete with ivory tusks , to remember the state committee by .
There may be other 1961 state committee retirements come April 18 , but they will be leaving by choice of the Republican voters .
A special presentation was made to Mrs. Geraldine Thompson of Red Bank , who is stepping down after 35 years on the committee .
Resentment welled up yesterday among Democratic district leaders and some county leaders at reports that Mayor Wagner had decided to seek a third term with Paul R. Screvane and Abraham D. Beame as running mates .
At the same time reaction among anti-organization Democratic leaders and in the Liberal party to the Mayor's reported plan was generally favorable .
Some anti-organization Democrats saw in the program an opportunity to end the bitter internal fight within the Democratic party that has been going on for the last three years .
The resentment among Democratic organization leaders to the reported Wagner plan was directed particularly at the Mayor's efforts to name his own running mates without consulting the leaders .
Opposition reported
These contend there is a serious question as to whether Mr. Wagner has the confidence of the Democratic rank and file in the city .
In an apparent effort to head off such a rival primary slate , Mr. Wagner talked by telephone yesterday with Representative Charles A. Buckley , the Bronx Democratic leader , and with Joseph T. Sharkey , the Brooklyn Democratic leader .
Mayor visits Buckley
Last night the Mayor visited Mr. Buckley at the Bronx leader's home for a discussion of the situation .
In talks with Mr. Buckley last week in Washington , the Mayor apparently received the Bronx leader's assent to dropping Controller Lawrence E. Gerosa , who lives in the Bronx , from this year's ticket .
Screvane and Beame hailed
The Mayor spoke yesterday at the United Irish Counties Feis on the Hunter College Campus in the Bronx .
`` It didn't come from me .
There is a tangible feeling in the air of revulsion toward politics .
`` It's ' See Joe , see Jim ' '' , he says .
A political scientist writes of the growth of `` alienated voters '' , who `` believe that voting is useless because politicians or those who influence politicians are corrupt , selfish and beyond popular control .
Corruption is hardly a recent development in the city and state that were widely identified as the locale of Edwin O'Connor's novel , `` The Last Hurrah '' .
A succession of highly publicized scandals has aroused the public within the last year .
A reader of the Boston newspapers can hardly escape the impression that petty chicanery , or worse , is the norm in Massachusetts public life .
The state Public Works Department is accused of having spent $8,555 to build a private beach for a state judge on his waterfront property .
In the Senate , several bills are expected to pass without any major conflict or opposition .
The housing bill is now in the House Rules Committee .
The panel's action depends on the return of Representative James W. Trimble , Democrat of Arkansas , who has been siding with Speaker Sam Rayburn's forces in the Rules Committee in moving bills to the floor .
Leadership is hopeful
The $6,100,000,000 measure , which was passed last Monday by the Senate , provides for forty-year mortgages at low down-payments for moderate-income families .
The education bill appears to be temporarily stalled in the Rules Committee , where two Northern Democratic members who usually vote with the Administration are balking because of the religious controversy .
Three groups to meet
Mr. Delaney and Mr. O'Neill are not willing to vote on the public-school measure until the defense education bill clears the House Education and Labor Committee .
About half of all Peace Corps projects assigned to voluntary agencies will be carried out by religious groups , according to an official of the corps .
In the $40,000,000 budget that has been submitted for Congressional approval , $26,000,000 would be spent through universities and private voluntary agencies .
Twelve projects proposed by private groups are at the contract-negotiation stage , Gordon Boyce , director of relations with the voluntary agencies , said in a Washington interview .
Question raised
There are a number of ways this could happen , the churchmen pointed out , and here is an example :
Last month in Ghana an American missionary discovered when he came to pay his hotel bill that the usual rate had been doubled .
`` Why do you worry ? ?
Missionary explains
The hotel owner shrugged .
And then , some churchmen remarked , there is a more classical church-state problem :
Can religious agencies use Government funds and Peace Corps personnel in their projects and still preserve the constitutional requirement on separation of church and state ? ?
R. Sargent Shriver Jr. , director of the corps , is certain that they can .
Mr. Khrushchev was jesting in the expansive mood of the successful banker .
The Soviet Union and other members of the Communist bloc are rapidly expanding their economic , technical and military assistance to the uncommitted nations .
The Communist countries allocated more than $1,000,000,000 in economic aid alone last year , according to Western estimates .
One effect of the proposal , which puts a premium on population instead of economic strength , as in the past , would be to take jobs from European nations and give more to such countries as India .
The new formula for filling staff positions in the Secretariat is one of a number of recommendations made by a panel of eight in a long and detailed report .
Formula is due this week
Each member would get one post for each 10,000,000 people in its population up to 150,000,000 people or a maximum of fifteen posts .
Each member with a population above 150,000,000 would get one additional post for each additional 30,000,000 people up to an unspecified cut-off point .
The decision was made in Zurich by Prince Boun Oum , Premier of the pro-Western royal Government ; ;
Their joint statement was welcomed by the Western delegations who will attend tomorrow the nineteenth plenary session of the fourteen-nation conference on the future of Laos .
Tactics studied in Geneva
Princess Moune , Prince Souvanna Phouma's young daughter , read the Princes' statement .
The three Laotians agreed upon a six-point agenda for their talks , which are to last three days .
The Princess said it was too early to say what would be decided if no agreement was reached after three days .
To deal with principles
Appointment of William S. Pfaff Jr. , 41 , as promotion manager of The Times-Picayune Publishing Company was announced Saturday by John F. Tims , president of the company .
Pfaff succeeds Martin Burke , who resigned .
The new promotion manager has been employed by the company since January , 1946 , as a commercial artist in the advertising department .
He is a native of New Orleans and attended Allen Elementary school , Fortier High school and Soule business college .
From June , 1942 , until December , 1945 , Pfaff served in the Army Air Corps .
Before entering the service , Pfaff for five years did clerical work with a general merchandising and wholesale firm in New Orleans .
He is married to the former Audrey Knecht and has a daughter , Karol , 13 .
Assuming the weather is halfway decent that day , hundreds of thousands of persons will mass along this thoroughfare as President John F. Kennedy and retiring President Dwight D. Eisenhower leave Capitol Hill following the oath-taking ceremonies and ride down this historic ceremonial route .
Pennsylvania Avenue , named for one of the original 13 states , perhaps is not the most impressive street in the District of Columbia from a commercial standpoint .
Many buildings
Within an easy walk from Capitol Hill where Pennsylvania Avenue comes together with Constitution Avenue , begins a series of great federal buildings , some a block long and all about seven-stories high .
Great chapters of history have been recorded along the avenue , now about 169 years old .
Seats on square
Street car tracks run down the center of Pennsylvania , powered with lines that are underground .
Many spectators will be occupying seats and vantage points bordering Lafayette Square , opposite the White House .
Moving past the presidential viewing stand and Lafayette Square will be at least 40 marching units .
Division one of the parade will be the service academies .
Division three will be headed by the Marines followed by 12 states ; ;
Even for those who have been observing the political scene a long time , no script from the past is worth very much in gazing into the state's immediate political future .
This is largely because of the unpredictability of the man who operates the helm of the state government and is the elected leader of its two million inhabitants -- Gov. Ross Barnett .
Barnett , who came into office with no previous experience in public administration , has surrounded himself with confusion which not only keeps his foes guessing but his friends as well .
Consequently , it is uncertain after nearly 12 months in office just which direction the Barnett administration will take in the coming year .
Could be scramble
The builtin headache of the Barnett regime thus far has been the steady stream of job-seekers and others who feel they were given commitments by Barnett at some stage of his eight-year quest for the governor's office .
There are many who predict that should Barnett decide to call the Legislature back into special session , it will really throw his administration into a scramble .
Certainly nobody will predict that the next time the lawmakers come back together Barnett will be able to enjoy a re-enactment of the strange but successful `` honeymoon '' he had in the 1960 legislative session .
If Barnett doesn't call a special session in 1961 , it will be the first year in the last decade that the Legislature has not met in regular or special session .
The odds favor a special session , more than likely early in the year .
Districts issue
The issue which may make it necessary to have a session is the highly sensitive problem of cutting the state's congressional districts from six to five to eliminate one congressional seat .
With eyes focused on the third congressional district , the historic Delta district , and Congressman Frank E. Smith as the one most likely to go , the redistricting battle will put to a test the longstanding power which lawmakers from the Delta have held in the Legislature .
Mississippi's relations with the national Democratic party will be at a crossroads during 1961 , with the first Democratic president in eight years in the White House .
Split badly during the recent presidential election into almost equally divided camps of party loyalists and independents , the Democratic party in Mississippi is currently a wreck .
Future clouded
With a Democratic administration , party patronage would normally begin to flow to Mississippi if it had held its Democratic solidarity in the November election .
Now , the picture is clouded , and even US Sens. James O. Eastland and John C. Stennis , who remained loyal to the ticket , are uncertain of their status .
Reports are that it is more than probable that the four congressmen from Mississippi who did not support the party ticket will be stripped of the usual patronage which flows to congressmen .
The year will probably start out with segregation still the most troublesome issue .
The transition from segregation to finances might already be in progress , in the form of an administration proposal to hike the state sales tax from 2 per cent to 3 per cent .
The administration has said the sales tax proposal is merely part of the segregation strategy , since the revenues from the increase would be dedicated to a grant in aid program .
But the tardiness of the administration in making the dedication has caused legislators to suspect the tax bill was related more directly to an over-all shortage of cash than to segregation .
Legislators weary
The effectiveness of the governor in clearing up some of the inconsistencies revolving about the sales tax bill may play a part in determining whether it can muster the required two-thirds vote .
The tax bill will be up for reconsideration Wednesday in the House when the Legislature reconvenes .
Davis may use the tax bill as a means to effect a transition from special sessions of the Legislature to normalcy .
If it fails to pass , he can throw up his hands and say the Legislature would not support him in his efforts to prevent integration .
Actually , Davis would have to toss in the towel soon anyway .
This is not the sort of thing most politicos would care to acknowledge publicly .
Underlying concern
Then he could tell them to go home , while the administration continued to wage the battle with the $28 million in extra revenues the sales tax measure would bring in over an eight months period .
It is difficult to be certain how the administration views that $28 million , since the views of one leader may not be the same as the views of another one .
But if the administration should find it does not need the $28 million for a grant-in-aid program , a not unlikely conclusion , it could very well seek a way to use the money for other purposes .
This would be in perfect consonance with the underlying concern in the administration -- the shortage of cash .
If the administration does not succeed in passing the sales tax bill , or any other tax bill , it could very well be faced this spring at the fiscal session of the Legislature with an interesting dilemma .
Since the constitution forbids introduction of a tax bill at a fiscal session , the administration will either have to cut down expenses or inflate its estimates of anticipated revenues .
Constant problem
The prospect of cutting back spending is an unpleasant one for any governor .
But if all alternatives should be clearly blocked off , it can be expected the Davis administration will take steps to trim spending at the spring session of the state Legislature .
This might be done to arouse those who have been squeezed out by the trims to exert pressure on the Legislature , so it would be more receptive to a tax proposal later in the year .
A constant problem confronting Davis on any proposals for new taxes will be the charge by his foes that he has not tried to economize .
Any tax bill also will revive allegations that some of his followers have been using their administration affiliations imprudently to profit themselves .
The new year might see some house-cleaning , either genuine or token , depending upon developments , to give Davis an opportunity to combat some of these criticisms .
City Controller Alexander Hemphill charged Tuesday that the bids on the Frankford Elevated repair project were rigged to the advantage of a private contracting company which had `` an inside track '' with the city .
Estimates of the city's loss in the $344,000 job have ranged as high as $200,000 .
Shortcuts unnoticed
The Hughes concern then took `` shortcuts '' on the project but got paid anyway , Hemphill said .
The Controller's charge of rigging was the latest development in an investigation which also brought these disclosures Tuesday :
The city has sued for the full amount of the $172,400 performance bond covering the contract .
The Philadelphia Transportation Co. is investigating the part its organization played in reviewing the project .
The signature of Harold V. Varani , former director of architecture and engineering in the Department of Public Property , appeared on payment vouchers certifying work on the project .
Managing Director Donald C. Wagner has agreed to cooperate fully with Hemphill after a period of sharp disagreement on the matter .
The announcement that the city would sue for recovery on the performance bond was made by City Solicitor David Berger at a press conference following a meeting in the morning with Wagner and other officials of the city and the PTC as well as representatives of an engineering firm that was pulled off the El project before its completion in 1959 .
Concern bankrupt
Business relations between the companies and city have been under investigation by Hemphill and District Attorney James C. Crumlish , Jr. .
Intervenes in case
At Berger's direction , the city also intervened in the Hughes bankruptcy case in U. S. District Court in a move preliminary to filing a claim there .
`` I am taking the position that the contract was clearly violated '' , Berger said .
The contract violations mostly involve failure to perform rehabilitation work on expansion joints along the El track .
Wide range in bids
But , Hemphill added , bids from other contractors ranged from $2400 to $3100 per joint .
Berger's decision to sue for the full amount of the performance bond was questioned by Wagner in the morning press conference .
`` We can claim on the maximum amount of the bond '' , Berger said .
Wagner replied , `` Can't you just see the headline : ' City Hooked for $172,000 ' '' ? ?
' know enough to sue '
Douglas M. Pratt , president of the PTC , who attended the meeting , said the transit company is reviewing the work on the El .
`` We want to find out who knew about it '' , Pratt said .
`` The PTC is investigating the whole matter '' , Pratt said .
Samuel D. Goodis , representing the Philadelphia Hotel Association , objected on Tuesday to a proposed boost by the city in licensing fees , saying that occupancy rates in major hotels here ranged from 48 to 74 percent last year .
Goodis voiced his objection before City Council's Finance Committee .
For hotels with 1000 rooms , the increased license fee would mean an expense of $5000 a year , Goodis said .
Testifies at hearing
The ordinance would increase the fee for rooming houses , hotels and multi-family dwellings to $5 a room .
Goodis said that single rooms account for 95 percent of the accomodations in some hotels .
Revenue estimated
The increase also was opposed by Leonard Kaplan , spokesman for the Home Builders Association of Philadelphia , on behalf of association members who operate apartment houses .
A proposal to raise dog license fees drew an objection from Councilwoman Virginia Knauer , who formerly raised pedigreed dogs .
Commissioner replies
In reply , Deputy Police Commissioner Howard R. Leary said that the city spends more than $115,000 annually to license and regulate dogs but collects only $43,000 in fees .
He reported that the city's contributions for animal care included $67,000 to the Women's S.P.C.A. ; ;
Backs higher fees
The new fee schedule also was supported by Commissioner of Licenses and Inspections Barnet Lieberman and Health Commissioner Eugene A. Gillis .
Petitions asking for a jail term for Norristown attorney Julian W. Barnard will be presented to the Montgomery County Court Friday , it was disclosed Tuesday by Horace A. Davenport , counsel for the widow of the man killed last Nov. 1 by Barnard's hit-run car .
The petitions will be presented in open court to President Judge William F. Dannehower , Davenport said .
Barnard , who pleaded no defense to manslaughter and hit-run charges , was fined $500 by Judge Warren K. Hess , and placed on two years' probation providing he does not drive during that time .
Victim of the accident was Robert Lee Stansbery , 39 .
The City Planning Commission on Tuesday approved agreements between two redevelopers and the Redevelopment Authority for the purchase of land in the $300,000,000 Eastwick Redevelopment Area project .
The commission also approved a novel plan that would eliminate traffic hazards for pedestrians in the project .
One of the agreements calls for the New Eastwick Corp. to purchase a 1311 acre tract for $12,192,865 .
Four parks planned
The corporation was formed by the Reynolds Metal Co. and the Samuel A. and Henry A. Berger firm , a Philadelphia builder , for work in the project .
The second agreement permits the authority to sell a 520-acre tract west of Stage 1 Residential to Philadelphia Builders Eastwick Corp. , a firm composed of 10 Philadelphia area builders , which is interested in developing part of the project .
Would bar vehicles
The plan calls for dividing the project into 16 sectors which would be barred to vehicular traffic .
The esplanade eliminates Grovers Ave. , which on original plans ran through the center of the development .
Battalion Chief Stanton M. Gladden , 42 , the central figure in a representation dispute between the fire fighters association and the teamsters union , suffered multiple fractures of both ankles .
Ignition sets off blast
`` I'd just turned on the ignition when there was a big flash and I was lying on the driveway '' , he said .
Gladden's wife and two of his sons , John , 17 , and Jim , 13 , were inside the house .
Hood flies over house
Police laboratory technicians said the explosive device , containing either TNT or nitroglycerine , was apparently placed under the left front wheel .
Gladden had been the target of threatening telephone calls in recent months and reportedly received one last night .
The fire department here has been torn for months by dissension involving top personnel and the fight between the fire fighters association and the teamsters union .
Led fight on teamsters
The fire fighters association here offered a $5,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of the person or persons responsible for the bombing .
The association said it would post 24 hour guards at Gladden's home and at those of James Mining and Eugene Shiflett .
An agreement between the leaders of four parties which contested indecisive elections on Oct. 15 was reached after almost 18 hours of political bargaining under the threat of an army coup d'etat .
By-passing the military junta which has ruled Turkey since the overthrow of Premier Adnan Menderes 17 months ago , the army general staff , led by Gen. Cedvet Sunay , had set a deadline for the parties to join in a national coalition government .
The army leaders threatened to form a new military government if the parties failed to sign an eight point protocol agreeing on Gen. Gursel as president .
The military also had demanded pledges that there would be no changes in the laws passed by the junta and no leaders of the Menderes regime now in prison would be pardoned .
Party leaders came out of the final meeting apparently satisfied and stated that complete agreement had been reached on a solution to the crisis created by the elections which left no party with enough strength to form a government on its own .
Vincent G. Ierulli has been appointed temporary assistant district attorney , it was announced Monday by Charles E. Raymond , District Attorney .
Ierulli will replace Desmond D. Connall who has been called to active military service but is expected back on the job by March 31 .
Ierulli , 29 , has been practicing in Portland since November , 1959 .
Helping foreign countries to build a sound political structure is more important than aiding them economically , E. M. Martin , assistant secretary of state for economic affairs told members of the World Affairs Council Monday night .
Martin , who has been in office in Washington , D. C. , for 13 months spoke at the council's annual meeting at the Multnomah Hotel .
`` We must persuade them to enjoy a way of life which , if not identical , is congenial with ours '' , he said but adding that if they do not develop the kind of society they themselves want it will lack ritiuality and loyalty .
Patience needed
He cited East Germany where after 15 years of Soviet rule it has become necessary to build a wall to keep the people in , and added , `` so long as people rebel , we must not give up '' .
Martin called for patience on the part of Americans .
`` The countries are trying to build in a decade the kind of society we took a century to build '' , he said .
By leaving our doors open the United States gives other peoples the opportunity to see us and to compare , he said .
Individual help best
Economically , Martin said , the United States could best help foreign countries by helping them help themselves .
The United States must plan to absorb the exported goods of the country , at what he termed a `` social cost '' .
Martin said the government has been working to establish firmer prices on primary products which may involve the total income of one country .
The Portland school board was asked Monday to take a positive stand towards developing and coordinating with Portland's civil defense more plans for the city's schools in event of attack .
But there seemed to be some difference of opinion as to how far the board should go , and whose advice it should follow .
The board members , after hearing the coordination plea from Mrs. Ralph H. Molvar , 1409 SW Maplecrest Dr. , said they thought they had already been cooperating .
Chairman C. Richard Mears pointed out that perhaps this was not strictly a school board problem , in case of atomic attack , but that the board would cooperate so far as possible to get the children to where the parents wanted them to go .
Dr. Melvin W. Barnes , superintendent , said he thought the schools were waiting for some leadership , perhaps on the national level , to make sure that whatever steps of planning they took would `` be more fruitful '' , and that he had found that other school districts were not as far along in their planning as this district .
`` Los Angeles has said they would send the children to their homes in case of disaster '' , he said .
Mrs. Molvar , who kept reiterating her request that they `` please take a stand '' , said , `` We must have faith in somebody -- on the local level , and it wouldn't be possible for everyone to rush to a school to get their children '' .
Dr. Barnes said that there seemed to be feeling that evacuation plans , even for a high school where there were lots of cars `` might not be realistic and would not work '' .
Mrs. Molvar asked again that the board join in taking a stand in keeping with Jack Lowe's program .
It was generally agreed that the subject was important and the board should be informed on what was done , is going to be done and what it thought should be done .
Hatfield also is scheduled to hold a public United Nations Day reception in the state capitol on Tuesday .
His schedule calls for a noon speech Monday in Eugene at the Emerald Empire Kiwanis Club .
He will speak to Willamette University Young Republicans Thursday night in Salem .
On Friday he will go to Portland for the swearing in of Dean Bryson as Multnomah County Circuit Judge .
He will attend a meeting of the Republican State Central Committee Saturday in Portland and see the Washington-Oregon football game .
Beaverton School District No. 48 board members examined blueprints and specifications for two proposed junior high schools at a Monday night workshop session .
A bond issue which would have provided some $3.5 million for construction of the two 900-student schools was defeated by district voters in January .
Last week the board , by a 4 to 3 vote , decided to ask voters whether they prefer the 6-3-3 ( junior high school ) system or the 8-4 system .
Secretary of Labor Arthur Goldberg will speak Sunday night at the Masonic Temple at a $25-a-plate dinner honoring Sen. Wayne L. Morse , Aj .
The dinner is sponsored by organized labor and is scheduled for 7 p.m. .
Secretary Goldberg and Sen. Morse will hold a joint press conference at the Roosevelt Hotel at 4:30 p.m. Sunday , Blaine Whipple , executive secretary of the Democratic Party of Oregon , reported Tuesday .
Other speakers for the fund-raising dinner include Reps. Edith Green and Al Ullman , Labor Commissioner Norman Nilsen and Mayor Terry Schrunk , all Democrats .
Incumbent Richard Salter seeks re-election and is opposed by Donald Huffman for the five-year term .
Five candidates seek the place vacated by Secretary Hugh G. Stout .
A stronger stand on their beliefs and a firmer grasp on their future were taken Friday by delegates to the 29th general council of the Assemblies of God , in session at the Memorial Coliseum .
The council revised , in an effort to strengthen , the denomination's 16 basic beliefs adopted in 1966 .
The changes , unanimously adopted , were felt necessary in the face of modern trends away from the Bible .
At the adoption , the Rev. T. F. Zimmerman , general superintendent , commented , `` The Assemblies of God has been a bulwark for fundamentalism in these modern days and has , without compromise , stood for the great truths of the Bible for which men in the past have been willing to give their lives '' .
New point added
The first of 16 beliefs of the denomination , now reads :
`` The scriptures , both Old and New Testament , are verbally inspired of God and are the revelation of God to man , the infallible , authoritative rule of faith and conduct '' .
The third belief , in six points , emphasizes the Diety of the Lord Jesus Christ , and :
-- emphasizes the Virgin birth
-- the sinless life of Christ
-- His miracles
-- His substitutionary work on the cross
-- His bodily resurrection from the dead
-- and His exaltation to the right hand of God .
Super again elected
Friday night the delegates heard the need for their forthcoming program , `` Breakthrough '' scheduled to fill the churches for the next two years .
The Rev. R. L. Brandt , national secretary of the home missions department , stressed the need for the first two years' work .
`` Surveys show that one out of three Americans has vital contact with the church .
Church loses pace
`` In 35 years we have opened 7,000 churches '' , the Rev. Mr. Brandt said , adding that the denomination had a national goal of one church for every 10,000 persons .
`` In this light we need 1,000 churches in Illinois , where we have 200 ; ;
To step up the denomination's program , the Rev. Mr. Brandt suggested the vision of 8,000 new Assemblies of God churches in the next 10 years .
To accomplish this would necessitate some changes in methods , he said .
' church meets change '
A capsule view of proposed plans includes :
-- Encouraging by every means , all existing Assemblies of God churches to start new churches .
-- Engaging mature , experienced men to pioneer or open new churches in strategic population centers .
-- Surrounding pioneer pastors with vocational volunteers ( laymen , who will be urged to move into the area of new churches in the interest of lending their support to the new project ) .
-- Arranging for ministerial graduates to spend from 6-12 months as apprentices in well-established churches .
U.S. Dist. Judge Charles L. Powell denied all motions made by defense attorneys Monday in Portland's insurance fraud trial .
Denials were of motions of dismissal , continuance , mistrial , separate trial , acquittal , striking of testimony and directed verdict .
In denying motions for dismissal , Judge Powell stated that mass trials have been upheld as proper in other courts and that `` a person may join a conspiracy without knowing who all of the conspirators are '' .
Attorney Dwight L. Schwab , in behalf of defendant Philip Weinstein , argued there is no evidence linking Weinstein to the conspiracy , but Judge Powell declared this is a matter for the jury to decide .
Proof lack charged
`` It is not necessary that a defendant actually have conpired to use the U.S. mails to defraud as long as there is evidence of a conspiracy , and the mails were then used to carry it out '' .
In the afternoon , defense attorneys began the presentation of their cases with opening statements , some of which had been deferred until after the government had called witnesses and presented its case .
Miami , Fla. , March 17
Indications as late as the top of the sixth were that the Birds were to end their victory draught as they coasted along with a 3-to-o advantage .
Siebern hits homer
Then Dick Hyde , submarine-ball hurler , entered the contest and only five batters needed to face him before there existed a 3-to-3 deadlock .
A two-run homer by Norm Siebern and a solo blast by Bill Tuttle tied the game , and single runs in the eighth and ninth gave the Athletics their fifth victory in eight starts .
House throws wild
Then Heywood Sullivan , Kansas City catcher , singled up the middle and Throneberry was across with what proved to be the winning run .
Rookie southpaw George Stepanovich relieved Hyde at the start of the ninth and gave up the A's fifth tally on a walk to second baseman Dick Howser , a wild pitch , and Frank Cipriani's single under Shortstop Jerry Adair's glove into center .
The Orioles once again performed at the plate in powderpuff fashion , gathering only seven blows off the offerings of three Kansas City pitchers .
Hartman impressive
The Birds got five hits and all three of their runs off Kunkel before Hartman took over in the top of the fourth .
Keegan , a 6-foot-3-inch 158-pounder , gave up the Orioles' last two safeties over the final three frames , escaping a load of trouble in the ninth when the Birds threatened but failed to tally .
Robinson doubles again
Whitey Herzog , performing in right as the Orioles fielded possibly their strongest team of the spring , worked Keegan for a base on balls .
Then three consecutive pinch-hitters failed to produce .
Pete Ward was sent in for House and , after failing in a bunt attempt , popped to Howser on the grass back of short .
John Powell , batting for Adair , fanned after fouling off two 2-and-2 pitches , and Buddy Barker , up for Stepanovich , bounced out sharply to Jerry Lumpe at second to end the 2-hour-and-27-minute contest .
The Orioles got a run in the first inning when Breeding , along with Robinson , the two Birds who got a pair of hits , doubled to right center , moved to third on Russ Snyder's single to right and crossed on Kunkel's wild pitch into the dirt in front of the plate .
The Flock added a pair of tallies in the third on three straight hits after two were out .
Jackie Brandt singled deep into the hole at short to start the rally .
Lumpe errs
Then Robinson slammed a long double to left center to score both runners .
The detailed rundown on the Kansas City scoring in the sixth went like this :
Lumpe worked a walk as the first batter to face Hyde and romped around as Siebern blasted Hyde's next toss 415 feet over the scoreboard in right center .
Carey Singles
Then Throneberry rapped into a fast double play .
If the Orioles are to break their losing streak within the next two days , it will have to be at the expense of the American League champion New York Yankees , who come in here tomorrow for a night game and a single test Sunday afternoon .
Hansen , who slugged the 1960 Oriole high of 22 homers and drove in 86 runs on a
freshman average , completes the Birds' spring squad at 49 players .
The big , 22-year-old shortstop , the 1960 American league `` rookie-of-the-year '' , flew here late this afternoon from Baltimore , signed his contract for an estimated $15,000 and was a spectator at tonight's 5-to-3 loss to Kansas City -- the winless Birds' sixth setback in a row .
15 pounds lighter
When he was inducted into the Army at Fort Knox , Ky. , Hansen's weight had dropped to 180 -- `` too light for me to be at my best '' he said .
`` I feel good physically '' , Hansen added , `` but I think I'll move better carrying a little less weight than I'm carrying now '' .
Seeks `` improved fielding ''
`` I think I can do a better job with the glove , now that I know the hitters around the league a little better '' , he said .
Hansen will engage in his first workout at Miami Stadium prior to the opening tomorrow night of a two-game weekend series with the New York Yankees .
Skinny Brown and Hoyt Wilhelm , the Flock's veteran knuckleball specialists , are slated to oppose the American League champions in tomorrow's 8 P.M. contest .
Duren , Sheldon on hill
Twenty-one-year-old Milt Pappas and Jerry Walker , 22 , are scheduled to share the Oriole mound chores against the Bombers' Art Ditmar in Sunday's 2 P.M. encounter .
Ralph Houk , successor to Casey Stengel at the Yankee helm , plans to bring the entire New York squad here from St. Petersburg , including Joe Dimaggio and large crowds are anticipated for both weekend games .
Squad cut near
Baltimore's bulky spring-training contingent now gradually will be reduced as Manager Paul Richards and his coaches seek to trim it down to a more streamlined and workable unit .
`` Take a ride on this one '' , Brooks Robinson greeted Hansen as the Bird third sacker grabbed a bat , headed for the plate and bounced a third-inning two-run double off the left-centerfield wall tonight .
It was the first of two doubles by Robinson , who was in a mood to celebrate .
Just before game time , Robinson's pretty wife , Connie informed him that an addition to the family can be expected late next summer .
Unfortunately , Brooks's teammates were not in such festive mood as the Orioles expired before the seven-hit pitching of three Kansas City rookie hurlers .
Hansen arrived just before nightfall , two hours late , in company with Lee MacPhail ; ;
Their flight was delayed , Dunn said , when a boarding ramp inflicted some minor damage to the wing of the plane .
Ex-Oriole Clint Courtney , now catching for the A's is all for the American League's 1961 expansion to the West Coast .
`` But they shouldda brought in Tokyo , too '' , added Old Scrapiron .
Toying with her field in the early stages , Garden Fresh was asked for top speed only in the stretch by Jockey Philip Grimm and won by a length and a half in 1.24 3-5 for the 7 furlongs .
8,280 attend races
A bright sun and brisk wind had the track in a fast condition for the first time this week and 8,280 St. Patty Day celebrants bet $842,617 on the well-prepared program .
Prior to the featured race , the stewards announced that apprentice James P. Verrone is suspended ten days for crowding horses and crossing the field sharply in two races on Wednesday .
Culmone gets first win
Kerr , who set the world record earlier this month in New York with a clocking of 1.09.3 , wiped out Mills's early pace and beat the young Big 10 quarter-mile king by 5 yards .
Mills shot out in front and kept the lead through two thirds of the race .
The crowd at the twenty-first annual K. of C. Games , final indoor meet of the season , got a thrill a few minutes earlier when a slender , bespectacled woman broke the one-week-old world record in the half-mile run .
Mrs. Grace Butcher , of nearby Chardon , a 27-year-old housewife who has two children , finished in 2.21.6 .
Waters injured his left knee in the last game of the 1960 season .
Austin , Texas
Time stands still every time Moritz , a 26-year-old Army Signal Corps veteran , goes into the field .
Moritz doesn't even have a nose guard or hip pads but he's one of the most valuable members of the Longhorn team that will be heavily favored Saturday over Oklahoma in the Cotton Bowl .
That's because he already has kicked 14 extra points in 15 tries .
Moritz is listed on the Longhorn roster as a right halfback , the position at which he lettered on the 1956 team .
A 208-pound , 6-foot 1-inch senior from Stamford , Moritz practices nothing but place-kicking .
`` This year , coach Royal told me if I'd work on my place-kicking he thought he could use me '' , said Moritz .
Moritz was bothered during the first two games this year by a pulled muscle in the thigh of his right ( kicking ) leg and , as a result , several of his successful conversions have gone barely far enough .
Moritz said Monday his leg feels fine and , as a result , he hopes to start practicing field goals this week .
`` I kicked about 110 extra points in 135 tries during three years in high school '' , he said , `` and made 26 in a row at one time .
Moritz came to Texas in 1954 but his freshman football efforts were hampered by a knee injury .
He went into the Army in March , 1957 , and returned two years later .
Place kicking is largely a matter of timing , Moritz declared .
`` Once you get the feel of it , there's not much to it .
`` It's kind of like golf -- if you don't swing a club very often , your timing gets off '' .
Moritz , however , kicks only about 10 or 12 extra points during each practice session .
`` If you kick too much , your leg gets kinda dead '' , he explained .
A good feeling prevailed on the SMU coaching staff Monday , but attention quickly turned from Saturday's victory to next week's problem : Rice University .
`` We're just real happy for the players '' , Coach Bill Meek said of the 9-7 victory over the Air Force Academy .
Assistant coach John Cudmore described victory as `` a good feeling , I think , on the part of the coaches and the players .
Meek expressed particular gratification at the defensive performances of end Happy Nelson and halfback Billy Gannon .
`` Nelson played magnificent football '' , Meek praised .
Gannon contributed saving plays on the Falcons' aerial thrusts in the late stages .
One was on a fourth-down screen pass from the Mustang 21 after an incomplete pass into Gannon's territory .
`` As soon as it started to form , Gannon spotted it '' , Meek said .
The Air Force's , and the game's , final play , was a long pass by quarterback Bob McNaughton which Gannon intercepted on his own 44 and returned 22 yards .
`` He just lay back there and waited for it '' , Meek said .
Except for sophomore center Mike Kelsey and fullback Mike Rice , Meek expects the squad to be physically sound for Rice .
`` Kelsey is very doubtful for the Rice game '' , Meek said .
Rice has not played since injuring a knee in the opener with Maryland .
`` He's looking a lot better , and he's able to run '' , Meek explained .
The game players saw the Air Force film Monday , ran for 30 minutes , then went in , while the reserves scrimmaged for 45 minutes .
`` We'll work hard Tuesday , Wednesday and Thursday '' , Meek said , `` and probably will have a good scrimmage Friday .
SMU will play the Owls at Rice Stadium in Houston in a night game Saturday , Oct. 21 .
Huddle hearsay
The Dallas Texans were back home Monday with their third victory in four American Football League starts -- a 19-12 triumph over the Denver Broncos -- but their visit will be a short one .
The Texans have two more road games -- at Buffalo and Houston -- before they play for the home folks again , and it looks as if coach Hank Stram's men will meet the Bills just as they are developing into the kind of team they were expected to be in pre-season reckonings .
Buffalo coach Buster Ramsey , who has become one of the game's greatest collectors of quarterbacks , apparently now has found a productive pair in two ex-National Football Leaguers , M. C. Reynolds and Warren Rabb .
Rabb , the former Louisiana State field general , came off the bench for his debut with the Bills Sunday and directed his new team to a 22-12 upset victory over the Houston Oilers , defending league champions .
`` Just our luck '' ! !
Ramsey has a thing or two to mutter about himself , for the Dallas defensive unit turned in another splendid effort against Denver , and the Texans were able to whip the dangerous Broncs without the fullbacking of a top star , Jack Spikes , though he did the team's place-kicking while nursing a knee injury .
`` Our interior line and out linebackers played exceptionally well '' , said Stram Monday after he and his staff reviewed movies of the game .
The Texans won the game through ball control , with Quarterback Cotton Davidson throwing only 17 passes .
`` We always like to keep the ball as much as we can against Denver because they have such an explosive attack '' , explained Stram .
The Broncs did hit two quick strikes in the final period against the Texans , but Dallas had enough of a lead to hold them off .
The principal tactic in controlling the ball was giving it to Abner Haynes , the flashy halfback .
The Texans made themselves a comforting break on the opening kickoff when Denver's Al Carmichael was jarred loose from the ball when Dave Grayson , the speedy halfback , hit him and Guard Al Reynolds claimed it for Dallas .
`` That permitted us to start controlling the ball right away '' , said Stram , quipping , `` I think I'll put that play in the book '' .
The early Southwest Conference football leaders -- Texas , Arkansas and Texas A & M -- made a big dent in the statistics last week .
Texas' 545-yard spree against Washington State gave the Longhorns a 3-game total offense of 1,512 yards ( 1,065 rushing and 447 passing ) a new SWC high .
Arkansas combined 280 yards rushing with 64 yards passing ( on 5 completions in 7 tosses ) and a tough defense to whip TCU , and A & M , with a 38-point bulge against Texas Tech ran up its biggest total loop play since 1950 .
Texas leads in per-game rushing averages , 355 yards , and passing 149 ( to Baylor's 126 ) , but idle Baylor has the best defensive record ( 187.5 yards per game to Texas' 189 ) .
Not satisfied with various unofficial checks on the liveliness of baseballs currently in use , the major leagues have ordered their own tests , which are in progress at Massachusetts Institute of Technology .
Rookie Ron Nischwitz continued his pinpoint pitching Monday night as the Bears made it two straight over Indianapolis , 5-3 .
The husky 6-3 , 205-pound lefthander , was in command all the way before an on-the-scene audience of only 949 and countless of television viewers in the Denver area .
It was Nischwitz' third straight victory of the new season and ran the Grizzlies' winning streak to four straight .
Nischwitz fanned six and walked only Charley Hinton in the third inning .
The Bears took the lead in the first inning , as they did in Sunday's opener , and never lagged .
Dick McAuliffe cracked the first of his two doubles against Lefty Don Rudolph to open the Bear's attack .
The Bears added two more in the fifth when McAuliffe dropped a double into the leftfield corner , Paschal doubled down the rightfield line and Cooke singled off Phil Shartzer's glove .
Nischwitz was working on a 3-hitter when the Indians bunched three of their eight hits for two runs in the sixth .
The Bears added their last run in the sixth on Alusik's double and outfield flies by Porter and Wert .
Gaines hammered the ball over the left fence for the third Indianapolis run in the ninth .
Despite the 45-degree weather the game was clicked off in 1:48 , thanks to only three bases on balls and some good infield play .
Chico Ruiz made a spectacular play on Alusik's grounder in the hole in the fourth and Wert came up with some good stops and showed a strong arm at third base .
Bingles and bobbles :
Lemon was on with his fourth single of the game , a liner to center .
Turk Lown was tagged with the loss , his second against no victories , while Ray Moore won his second game against a single loss .
The Twins tied the score in the sixth inning when Reno Bertoia beat out a high chopper to third base and scored on Lenny Green's double to left .
The White Sox had taken a 5-4 lead in the top of the sixth on a pair of pop fly hits -- a triple by Roy Sievers and single by Camilo Carreon -- a walk and a sacrifice fly .
Jim Landis' 380-foot home run over left in the first inning gave the Sox a 1-0 lead , but Harmon Killebrew came back in the bottom of the first with his second homer in two days with the walking Bob Allison aboard .
Al Smith's 340-blast over left in the fourth -- his fourth homer of the campaign -- tied the score and Carreon's first major league home run in the fifth put the Sox back in front .
A double by Green , Allison's run-scoring 2-baser , an infield single by Lemon and Gardner's solid single to center put the Twins back in front in the last of the fifth .
`` I've had it '' , he told a newsman .
This was the first word from Jensen on his sudden walkout .
Jensen got only six hits in 46 at-bats for a batting average in the first 12 games .
He took a midnight train out of Cleveland Saturday , without an official word to anybody , and has stayed away from newsmen on his train trip across the nation to Reno , Nev. , where his wife , former Olympic Diving Champion Zoe Ann Olsen , awaited .
She said , when she learned Jackie was heading home : `` I'm just speculating , but I have to think Jack feels he's hurting Boston's chances '' .
The Union Pacific Railroad streamliner , City of San Francisco , stopped in Ogden , Utah , for a few minutes .
The conductor said to Ritchie : `` I don't think you want to talk to him .
But Jackie had gone into the station .
`` I told him who I was and he was quite cold .
Liston is Bill Liston , baseball writer for the Boston Traveler , who quoted Jensen as saying :
`` I can't hit anymore .
Just when it seems baseball might be losing its grip on the masses up pops heroics to start millions of tongues to wagging .
And so it was over the weekend what with 40-year-old Warren Spahn pitching his no-hit masterpiece against the Giants and the Giants' Willie Mays retaliating with a record-tying 4-homer spree Sunday .
Both , of course , were remarkable feats and further embossed the fact that baseball rightfully is the national pastime .
Of the two cherished achievements the elderly Spahn's hitless pitching probably reached the most hearts .
It was a real stimulant to a lot of guys I know who have moved past the 2-score-year milestone .
The modest and happy Spahn waved off his new laurels as one of those good days .
Yes , with Bob Grove , Carl Hubbell , Herb Pennock , Art Nehf , Vernon Gomez , et al .
Spahn not only is a superior pitcher but a gentlemanly fine fellow , a ball player's ball player , as they say in the trade .
I remember his beardown performance in a meaningless exhibition game at Bears Stadium Oct. 14 , 1951 , before a new record crowd for the period of 18,792 .
`` Spahnie doesn't know how to merely go through the motions '' , remarked Enos Slaughter , another all-out guy , who played rightfield that day and popped one over the clubhouse .
The spectacular Mays , who reaches a decade in the big leagues come May 25 , joined six other sluggers who walloped four home runs in a span of nine innings .
Incidentally , only two did it before a home audience .
Ed Delahanty and Chuck Klein of the Phillies , the Braves' Joe Adcock , Lou Gehrig of the Yankees , Pat Seerey of the White Sox and Rocky Colavito , then with Cleveland , made their history on the road .
Willie's big day revived the running argument about the relative merits of Mays and Mickey Mantle .
This is an issue which boils down to a matter of opinion , depending on whether you're an American or National fan and anti or pro-Yankee .
In four of his nine previous seasons Mays hit as many as 25 home runs and stole as many as 25 bases .
The Giants who had been anemic with the bat in their windy Candlestick Park suddenly found the formula in Milwaukee's park .
The Denver-area TV audience was privileged to see Mays' four home runs , thanks to a new arrangement made by Bob Howsam that the games are not to be blacked out when his Bears are playing at home .
This rule providing for a blackout of televised baseball 30 minutes before the start of a major or minor league game in any area comes from the game's top rulers .
The last couple of years the Bears management got the business from the `` Living Room Athletic Club '' when games were cut off .
This year , I am told , the CBS network will continue to abide by the rule but NBC will play to a conclusion here .
It is an irritable rule that does baseball more harm than good , especially at the minor league level .
This dissatisfaction led to Howsam's request that the video not be terminated before the end of the game .
With Mickey Mantle and Yogi Berra both out of action due to injuries , the American League champs still mounted a 15-hit attack against a parade of eight Cincinnati pitchers , the most ever used by one team in a series game .
Johnny Blanchard , Mantle's replacement , slammed a 2-run homer as the Yankees routed loser Joey Jay in a 5-run first inning .
The Yanks also took advantage of three Cincinnati errors .
The crowd of 32,589 had only two chances to applaud .
In the third Frank Robinson hammered a long home run deep into the corner of the bleachers in right center , about 400 feet away , with two men on .
In the fifth , Wally Post slashed a 2-run homer off Bud Daley , but by that time the score was 11-5 and it really didn't matter .
The Yankee triumph made Ralph Houk only the third man to lead a team to both a pennant and a World Series victory in his first year as a manager .
Philadelphia , Jan. 23
Skorich received a three-year contract at a salary believed to be between $20,000 and $25,000 a year .
The appointment was announced at a news conference at which Skorich said he would retain two members of Shaw's staff -- Jerry Williams and Charlie Gauer .
Williams is a defensive coach .
Choice was expected
Van Brocklin , the quarterback who led the Eagles to the title , was signed by the Vikings last Wednesday .
With Skorich at the helm , the Eagles are expected to put more emphasis on running , rather than passing .
Skorich , however , is a strong advocate of a balanced attack -- split between running and passing .
Coach played 3 years
An injury forced Skorich to quit after the 1948 season .
Four years later he resigned to take a similar job with the Green Bay Packers .
Skorich began his new job auspiciously today .
Shaw and Skorich headed a group of players , coaches and team officials who received an engrossed copy of an official city citation and a pair of silver cufflinks shaped like a football .
With the announcement of a `` special achievement award '' to William A. ( ( Bill ) Shea , the awards list was completed yesterday for Sunday night's thirty-eighth annual dinner and show of the New York Chapter , Baseball Writers' Association of America , at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel .
Shea , the chairman of Mayor Wagner's Baseball Committee , will be joined on the dais by Warren Spahn , the southpaw pitching ace of the Milwaukee Braves ; ;
Stengel will receive the Ben Epstein Good Guy Award .
Graham will be recognized for his meritorious service to baseball and will get the William J. Slocum Memorial Award .
Show follows ceremonies
The 53-year-old Shea , a prominent corporation lawyer with a sports background , is generally recognized as the man most responsible for the imminent return of a National League club to New York .
His goal was to obtain a National League team for this city .
Despite countless barriers and disappointments , Shea moved forward .
When that failed , he enlisted Branch Rickey's aid in the formation of a third major league , the Continental , with New York as the key franchise .
Flushing stadium in works
Shea and his wife , Nori , make their home at Sands Point , L. I. .
Shea was born in Manhattan .
Later , Shea owned and operated the Long Island Indians , a minor league professional football team .
All was quiet in the office of the Yankees and the local National Leaguers yesterday .
Arnold Palmer and Sam Snead will be among those honored at the national awards dinner of the Metropolitan Golf Writers Association tonight .
Palmer , golf's leading money-winner in 1960 , and Snead will be saluted as the winning team in the Canada Cup matches last June in Dublin .
The writers' Gold Tee Award will go to John McAuliffe of Plainfield , N. J. , and Palm Beach , Fla. , for his sponsorship of charity tournaments .
The principal speaker will be Senator Stuart Symington , Democrat of Missouri .
Golf's golden boy
But he also achieved something that endeared him to every duffer who ever flubbed a shot .
It was neither a spirit of self-sacrifice nor a yen to encourage the downtrodden that motivated Arnold .
No margin for error
`` It is possible that I over-corrected '' , he said ruefully .
`` It was a nice round figure , that 12 '' , he said as he headed for the clubhouse , not too much perturbed .
From the standpoint of the army of duffers , however , this was easily the most heartening exhibition they had had since Ben Hogan fell upon evil ways during his heyday and scored an 11 in the Texas open .
Stickler for rules
`` Thirteen '' , said Long Jim .
`` Nae , man '' , said Willie , `` ye must be countin' the echoes '' .
Palmer's dozen were honestly earned .
His first shot in the Open last year landed in a brook that flowed along the right side of the fairway .
Arnold sent for Joe Dey , the executive secretary of the golf association .
`` I knew it all along '' , confessed Arnold with a grin , `` but I just happened to think how much nicer it would be to drop one way up there '' .
For a serious young man who plays golf with a serious intensity , Palmer has such an inherent sense of humor that it relieves the strain and keeps his nerves from jangling like banjo strings .
It happened on the twelfth hole , a 155-yarder .
Ruling from on high
`` No '' , said the official .
`` You're wrong '' , said Arnold , a man who knows the rules .
He scored a 4 for the embedded ball , a 3 with the provisional one .
Until a few weeks ago , however , Arnold Palmer was some god-like creature who had nothing in common with the duffers .
A formula to supply players for the new Minneapolis Vikings and the problem of increasing the 1961 schedule to fourteen games will be discussed by National Football League owners at a meeting at the Hotel Warwick today .
Other items on the agenda during the meetings , which are expected to continue through Saturday , concern television , rules changes , professional football's hall of fame , players' benefits and constitutional amendments .
The owners would like each club in the fourteen-team league to play a home-and-home series with teams in its division , plus two games against teams in the other division .
Pete Rozelle , the league commissioner , pointed out :
`` We'll have the problem of baseball at one end and weather at the other '' .
Nine of the league's teams play in baseball parks and therefore face an early-season conflict in dates .
If the Cardinals heed Manager Gene Mauch of the Phillies , they won't be misled by the Pirates' slower start this season .
`` Pittsburgh definitely is the team to beat '' , Mauch said here the other day .
Tonight at 8 o'clock the Cardinals , who gave the Pirates as much trouble as anyone did in 1960 , breaking even with them , will get their first 1961 shot at baseball's world champions .
Change in pitchers .
Solly Hemus announced a switch in his starting pitcher , from Bob Gibson to Ernie Broglio , for several reasons : 1 Broglio's 4-0 won-lost record and 1.24 earned-run mark against Pittsburgh a year ago ; ;
Manager Hemus , eager to end a pitching slump that has brought four losses in the five games on the current home stand , moved Gibson to the Wednesday night starting assignment .
Harvey Haddix , set back by the flu this season , will start against his former Cardinal mates , who might be playing without captain Kenny Boyer in tonight's game at Busch Stadium .
Haddix has a 13-8 record against the Redbirds , despite only a 1-3 mark in 1960 .
Pirate Manager Danny Murtaugh said he hadn't decided between Mizell and Vern Law for Wednesday's game .
Nieman kept in lineup .
After a lengthy workout yesterday , an open date , Hemus said that Bob Nieman definitely would stay in the lineup .
`` I have to stay with Nieman for a while '' , Hemus said .
`` Lindy McDaniel threw batting practice about 25 minutes , and he looked good '' , Hemus said .
The statistics hardly indicated that the Pirates needed extra batting practice , but Murtaugh also turned his men loose at Busch Stadium yesterday .
Six Bucks over .
Until the Bucs' bats quieted down a bit in Cincinnati over the weekend , the champions had eight men hitting over .
, Dick Stuart , Don Hoak
and Bob Skinner
.
Bill Mazeroski with and Hal Smith with were the only Pirates dragging their feet .
Perhaps the Pirate who will be the unhappiest over the news that Musial probably will sit out most of the series is Bob Friend , who was beaten by The Man twice last season on dramatic home runs .
`` We're getting Friend some runs for a change , and he has been pitching good '' , Murtaugh said .
Six Bucs over .
The Pirates jumped off to an 11-3 start by May 1 last year , when the Redbirds as well as the Dodgers held them even over the season .
Since 1949 , the St. Louis club has been below on May 1 just four times .
The '52 Cards were 6-7 on May 1 but ended with 88 triumphs , the club's top since 1949 .
Since 1949 , the only National League club that got off to a hot start and made a runaway of the race was the '55 Dodger team .
They honored the battling Billikens last night .
The most valuable player award was split three ways , among Glen Mankowski , Gordon Hartweger and Tom Kieffer .
`` You often hear people talk about team spirit and that sort of thing '' , Benington said in a conversation after the ceremonies , `` but what this team had was a little different .
`` Several times I found the players pepping me up , where it usually is the coach who is supposed to deliver the fight talk .
The trio who shared the most-valuable honors were introduced by Bob Broeg , sports editor of the Post-Dispatch .
Kieffer , the only junior in the group , was commended for his ability to hit in the clutch , as well as his all-round excellent play .
Mankowski , the ball-hawking defensive expert , was cited for his performance against Bradley in St. Louis U.'s nationally televised victory .
Benington recalled that he once told Hartweger that he doubted Gordon would ever play much for him because he seemed to be lacking in all of the accepted basketball skills .
Mrs. Benington admired Gordon's spirit and did what she could to persuade her husband that the boy might help the team .
As Hartweger accepted his silver bowl , he said , `` I want to thank coach's wife for talking him into letting me play '' .
Bob Burnes , sports editor of the Globe-Democrat , presented Bob Nordmann with his award .
On the clock given him was the inscription , `` For Outstanding Contribution to Billiken Basketball , 1960-61 '' .
Other lettermen from the team that compiled a 21-9 record and finished as runner-up in the National Invitation Tournament were : Art Hambric , Donnell Reid , Bill Nordmann , Dave Harris , Dave Luechtefeld and George Latinovich .
`` This team set a precedent that could be valuable in the future '' , Benington pointed out .
St. Louis University found a way to win a baseball game .
The victory was the first of the season for the Billikens after nine defeats and a tie .
Scherer also had a big night at bat with four hits in five trips including a double , Len Boehmer also was 4-for-5 with two doubles and Dave Ritchie had a home run and a triple .
St. Louis U. was to be in action again today with a game scheduled at 4 against Washington University at Ligget Field .
The game opened a busy week for Washington .
Happy hitting
The two top talents of the time , Mickey Mantle and Willie Mays , have hit the ball harder and more successfully so far this early season than at any period in careers which , to be frank about it , never have quite reached expectations .
And that's meant as a boost , not a knock .
Mays and Mantle , both 10-year men at 30 , have so much ability that , baseball men agree , they've never hit the heights .
Mantle , the bull-necked blond switch-hitter , had one sensational triple-crown season , 1959 , when he batted and also led the American League in home runs , 52 , and rbi's , 130 .
Like the Yankees' slugger , Mays , the terror of the Giants , has had seasons that would be considered the ultimate by most players , but not by -- or for -- Willie .
Now , apparently happier under new managers , Mays and Mantle , the perfect players , are behaving as though they're going to pass those previous peaks .
Labor relations
The truth is , though , that men react differently to different treatment .
Mantle , it's apparent , resented Casey Stengel's attempts to push and prod him into the perfection the veteran manager saw as a thrilling possibility .
With the speed and power of the body beautiful he saw before him , Ol' Case wanted No. 7 to be not only the best homerun hitter , but also the best bunter , base-runner and outfielder .
Inheriting a more mature Mantle , who now has seen the sights on and off Broadway , Ralph Houk quietly bestowed , no pun intended , the mantle of authority on Mickey .
The opinion continues here that with a 162-game schedule , pitching spread thin through a 10-team league and a most inviting target in Los Angeles' Wrigley Field Jr. , Mantle just might break the most glamorous record on the books , Babe Ruth's 60 homers of 1927 .
Four for Alvin
Next to Leo Durocher , Dark taught Mays the most when he was a grass-green rookie rushed up to the Polo Grounds 10 years ago this month , to help the Giants win a dramatic pennant .
Romantic news concerns Mrs. Joan Monroe Armour and F. Lee H. Wendell , who are to be married at 4:30 p.m. tomorrow in the Lake Forest home of her brother , J. Hampton Monroe , and Mrs. Monroe .
The bride's brother , Walter D. Monroe Jr. , will give her in marriage .
Also present will be the bride's children , Joan , 13 , and Kirkland , 11 .
Mr. Wendell and his bride will live in his Lake Forest house .
' back with the Met
`` Housed in the new McCormick Place theater , this should prove to be an exciting evening '' , adds Mrs. Sims .
Parichy-Hamm
Mrs. Hamm will not come from Vero Beach , Fla. , for the wedding .
Harvey B. Stevens of Kenilworth will give his niece in marriage .
Here and there
With loud huzzahs for the artistic success of the Presbyterian-St. Luke's Fashion show still ringing in her ears , its director , Helen Tieken Geraghty ( Mrs. Maurice P. Geraghty ) is taking off tomorrow on a 56 day world trip which should earn her even greater acclaim as director of entertainment for next summer's International Trade fair .
`` We ( the Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry ) expect to establish closer relations with nations and their cultural activities , and it will be easy as a member of the fair staff to bring in acts '' , explains Mrs. Geraghty .
The last obstacle in Mrs. Geraghty's globe-girdling trip was smoothed out when a representative of Syria called upon her to explain that his brother would meet her at the border of that country -- so newly separated from Egypt and the United Arab Republic that she hadn't been able to obtain a visa .
First , Honolulu
Dec. 22 is the deadline for Mrs. Geraghty's return ; ;
It won't be a `` tea '' , however , but more of an international folk song festival , with singers from Chicago's foreign groups to sing Christmas songs from around the world .
Burke-Rostagno
Miss Burke , a graduate of Miss Hall's school , stayed on in Florence as a career girl .
Here and there
Mrs. William Odell , Mrs. Clinton B. King , John Holabird Jr. , Norman Boothby , and Actress Maureen O'Sullivan will judge the costumes in the grand march at the Affaire Old Towne Bal Masque tomorrow in the Germania club .
Lyon around : Columnist Walter Winchell , well and rat-a-tat-tatty again , wheeled thru town between trains yesterday en route to his Phoenix , Ariz. , rancho , portable typewriter in hand .
The Living Room has another scoop : Jane Russell will make one of her rare night club singing appearances there , opening Jan. 22 .
George Simon , exec director of Danny Thomas A. L. S. A. C. ( Aiding Leukemia Stricken American Children ) fund raising group , filled me in on the low-down phonies who are using phones to solicit funds for Danny's St. Jude hospital in Memphis .
Gorgeous Doris Day and her producer-hubby , Marty Melcher , drive in today from a motor tour thru New England .
Emcee Jack Herbert insists Dick Nixon's campaign slogan for governor of California is , `` Knight Must Fall '' ! !
The jotted Lyon : This mad world dept. : Khrush and the Kremlin crowd are confident all right .
`` La Dolce Vita '' , the dynamite Italian flicker , opens at popular prices at the Loop theater Nov. 2 .
After being closed for seven months , the Garden of the Gods Club will have its gala summer opening Saturday , June 3 .
Music for dancing will be furnished by Allen Uhles and his orchestra , who will play each Saturday during June .
Members and guests will be in for an added surprise with the new wing containing 40 rooms and suites , each with its own private patio .
Gene Marshall , genial manager of the club , has announced that the Garden of the Gods will open to members Thursday , June 1 .
Beginning July 4 , there will be an orchestra playing nightly except Sunday and Monday for the summer season .
Mrs. J. Edward Hackstaff and Mrs. Paul Luette are planning a luncheon next week in honor of Mrs. J. Clinton Bowman , who celebrates her birthday on Tuesday .
Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Chase announce the birth of a daughter , Sheila , on Wednesday in Mercy Hospital .
Grandparents are Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Chase and Mr. and Mrs. Guy Mullenax of Kittredge .
Mrs. Chase is the former Miss Mary Mullenax .
Back to w. coast
Mrs. John C. Vroman Jr. of Manzanola is spending several days in her Sherman Plaza apartment .
Mr. and Mrs. Merrill Shoup have returned to their home in Colorado Springs after spending a few days at the Brown Palace Hotel .
Brig. Gen. and Mrs. Robert F. McDermott will entertain at a black tie dinner Wednesday , May 3 , in the Officers' Club at the Air Force Academy .
Cocktail party
There will be a stag dinner Friday evening at the Denver Country Club which will precede the opening of the 1961 golf season .
Cocktails will be served from 6 to 7 p.m. , with dinner at 7 and entertainment in the main dining room immediately following .
Miss Betsy Parker was one of the speakers on the panel of the Eastern Women's Liberal Arts College panel on Wednesday evening in the Security Life Bldg. .
Guests were juniors in the public high schools .
Fashion show
The event , staged yearly by Neusteters , will be held in the Opera House Wednesday , Aug. 16 .
Mrs. Roger Mead is head of the luncheon table decorations .
Members of the committee include Mrs. Milton Bernet , Mrs. J. Clinton Bowman , Mrs. Rollie W. Bradford , Mrs. Samuel Butler Jr. , Mrs. Donald Carr Campbell , Mrs. Douglas Carruthers , Mrs. John C. Davis 3 , , Mrs. Cris Dobbins , Mrs. William E. Glass , Mrs. Alfred Hicks 2 , , Mrs. Donald Magarrell , Mrs. Willett Moore , Mrs. Myron Neusteter , Mrs. Richard Gibson Smith , Mrs. James S. Sudier 2 , and Mrs. Thomas Welborn .
The first committee meeting will be held on May 19 .
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew S. Kelsey of Washington , D.C. , announce the birth of a daughter , Kira Ann Kelsey , on Monday in Washington , D.C. .
Grandparents are Mr. and Mrs. R.L. Rickenbaugh and Mr. and Mrs. E.O. Kelsey of Scarsdale , N.Y. .
Mrs. Kelsey is the former Miss Ann Rickenbaugh .
A cheery smile , a compassionate interest in others and a practical down-to-earth approach .
Those qualities make Esther Marr a popular asset at the Salvation Army's Social Center at 1200 Larimer St. .
The pert , gray-haired woman who came to Denver three years ago from Buffalo , N.Y. , is a `` civilian '' with the Army .
Her position covers a number of daily tasks common to any social director .
`` Mom '' Marr , as the more than 80 men at the center call her , is the link that helps to bridge the gulf between alcoholics and the outside world and between parolees and society .
Her day starts early , but no matter how many pressing letters there are to be written ( and during May , which is National Salvation Army Week , there are plenty ) , schedules to be made or problems to be solved , Mrs. Marr's office is always open and the welcome mat is out .
Mrs. Marr is the first contact a Skid Row figure talks to after he decides he wants to pick himself up .
She sees that there is a cup of steaming hot coffee awaiting him and the two chat informally as she presents the rules of the center and explains procedures .
`` Usually at this point a man is withdrawn from society and one of my jobs is to see that he relearns to mingle with his fellow men '' , Mrs. Marr explained .
The Denverite has worked out an entire program to achieve this using the facilities of the center .
`` And I bum tickets to everything I can '' , she said .
In addition to the tickets to the movies , sporting events and concerts , Mrs. Marr lines up candy and cookies because alcoholics require a lot of sweets to replace the sugar in their system .
Mrs. Marr also has a number of parolees to `` mother '' , watching to see that they do not break their parole and that they also learn to readjust to society .
By mid-June , millions of Americans will take to the road on vacation trips up and down and back and forth across this vast and lovely land .
In another four weeks , with schools closed across the nation , the great all-American summer safari will be under way .
No matter how many Americans go abroad in summer , probably a hundred times as many gas up the family car , throw suitcases , kids and comic books in the back seat , and head for home .
Ah , that is simple .
The land lies ready for the coming onslaught .
set for influx
I hope it can be said without boasting that no other nation offers its vacationing motorists such variety and beauty of scene , such an excellent network of roads on which to enjoy it and such decent , far-flung over-night accommodations .
Maybe motel-keeping isn't the nation's biggest industry , but it certainly looks that way from the highway .
There are motels for all purposes and all tastes .
Many with pools
Motorists like myself who can remember the old `` tourists accommodated '' signs on farm houses and village homes before World War 2 , can only marvel at the great size and the luxury of the relatively new and fast-grossing motel business .
All for $14 ! !
At the Boxwood Motel in Winchester , Va. , we accidentally drew the honeymoon suite , an elegant affair with wall-to-wall carpeting , gold and white furniture , pink satin brocade chairs , 24-inch TV and a pink tile bath with masses of pink towels .
That made up for the `` best '' motel in Norman , Okla. , where the proprietor knocked $2 off the $8.50 tab when we found ants in the pressed-paper furniture .
Oxnard , Calif. , will be the home of the Rev. Robert D. Howard and his bride , the former Miss Judith Ellen Gay , who were married Saturday at the Munger Place Methodist Church .
Parents of the bride are Mr. and Mrs. Ferris M. Gay , 7034 Coronado .
Dr. W. B. I. Martin officiated , and the bride was given in marriage by her father .
The couple will honeymoon in Sequoia National Park , Calif. .
Miss Joan Frances Baker , a graduate of SMU , was married Saturday to Elvis Leonard Mason , an honor graduate of Lamar State College of Technology , in the chapel of the First Presbyterian Church of Houston .
The bride , daughter of Rhodes Semmes Baker Jr. of Houston and the late Mrs. Baker , was president of Kappa Kappa Gamma and a member of Mortar Board at Aj .
The Rev. Richard Freeman of Texas City officiated and Charles Pabor and Mrs. Marvin Hand presented music .
She wore a court-length gown of organdy designed with bateau neckline and princesse skirt accented by lace appliques .
Miss Mary Ross of Baird was maid of honor , and bridesmaids were Miss Pat Dawson of Austin , Mrs. Howard M. Dean of Hinsdale , Ill. , and Mrs. James A. Reeder of Shreveport , La. .
Cecil Mason of Hartford , Conn. , was best man for his brother , and groomsmen were Rhodes S. Baker 3 , of Houston , Dr. James Carter of Houston and Conrad McEachern of New Orleans , La. .
After a reception at The Mayfair , the newlyweds left for a wedding trip to New Orleans , La. .
Miss Shirley Joan Meredith , a former student of North Texas State University , was married Saturday to Larry W. Mills , who has attended Arlington State College .
Parents of the couple are Ray Meredith of Denton and the late Mrs. Meredith and Mrs. Hardy P. Mills of Floresville and the late Mr. Mills .
The Rev. Melvin Carter officiated at the ceremony in Slaughter Chapel of the First Baptist Church .
She wore a gown of satin designed along princesse lines and featuring a flared skirt and lace jacket with bateau neckline .
Miss Glenda Kay Meredith of Denton was her sister's maid of honor , and Vernon Lewelleyn of San Angelo was best man .
The First Christian Church of Pampa was the setting for the wedding last Sunday of Miss Marcile Marie Glison and Thomas Earl Loving Jr. , who will live at 8861 Gaston after a wedding trip to New Orleans , La.
The bride , daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Ervin Glison of Pampa , has attended Texas Woman's University and will continue her studies at Aj .
`` A Night in New Orleans '' is the gayety planned by members of the Thrift Shop Committee for May 6 at Philmont Country Club .
The Louisiana city is known , of course , for its fine food , good music and its colorful hospitality `` and , when guests arrive at Philmont that night '' , says Mrs. Grinsfelder , `` that is exactly what we expect to offer them .
Basin Street Beat
As for food , Mrs. Henry Louchheim , chairman of this phase , is a globetrotter who knows good food .
Scenic effects
The gala is the Thrift Shop's annual bundle party and , as all Thrift Shop friends know , that means the admission is a bundle of used clothing in good condition , contributions of household equipment , bric-a-brac and such to stock the shelves at the shop's headquarters at 1213 Walnut St. .
Bundle centers
The Thrift Shop , with Mrs. Bernhard S. Blumenthal as president , is one of the city's most successful fund-raisers for the Federation of Jewish Agencies .
It's big business
Mrs. Theodore Kapnek is vice chairman of the committee for the gala .
Mrs. Arthur Loeb is making arrangements for a reception ; ;
In addition , Mr. and Mrs. Allan Goodman are controllers , Mrs. Paul Stone is treasurer and Mrs. Albert Quell is in charge of admittance for the dancing at 9 P.m. .
Besides the bundle centers where contributions may be made there will be facilities at Philmont Country Club for those who would like to bring the bundles on the night of the party .
The women's committee of St. David's Church will hold its annual pre-Fair pink parade , a dessert bridge and fashion show at 1 p.m. on Monday , April 17 , in the chapel assembly room , Wayne .
Mrs. Robert O. Spurdle is chairman of the committee , which includes Mrs. James A. Moody , Mrs. Frank C. Wilkinson , Mrs. Ethel Coles , Mrs. Harold G. Lacy , Mrs. Albert W. Terry , Mrs. Henry M. Chance , 2d , Mrs. Robert O. Spurdle , Jr. , Mrs. Harcourt N. Trimble , Jr. , Mrs. John A. Moller , Mrs. Robert Zeising , Mrs. William G. Kilhour , Mrs. Hughes Cauffman , Mrs. John L. Baringer and Mrs. Clyde Newman .
The fashion show , by Natalie Collett will have Mrs. John Newbold as commentator .
Col. Clifton Lisle , of Chester Springs , who headed the Troop Committee for much of its second and third decades , is now an honorary member .
The Troop is proud of its camping-out program -- on year-round schedule and was continued even when sub-zero temperatures were registered during the past winter .
`` We worry '' , say the mothers .
Mrs. John Charles Cotty is chairman of publicity for the country fair and Mrs. Francis G. Felske and Mrs. Francis Smythe , of posters .
`` Meet the Artist '' is the invitation issued by members of the Greater Philadelphia Section of the National Council of Jewish Women as they arrange for an annual exhibit and sale of paintings and sculpture at the Philmont Country Club on April 8 and 9 .
A preview party for sponsors of the event and for the artists is set for April 8 .
Noted artist
The event is the sixth on the annual calendar of the local members of the National Council of Jewish Women .
Others assisting
Also Mrs. Berton Korman , Mrs. Morton Rosen , Mrs. Jacques Zinman , Mrs. Evelyn Rosen , Mrs. Henry Schultz , Mr. and Mrs. I. S. Kamens , Mrs. Jack Langsdorf , Mrs. Leonard Liss , Mrs. Gordon Blumberg , Mrs. Oscar Bregman , Mrs. Alfred Kershbaum and Mrs. Edward Sabol .
Dr. and Mrs. N. Volney Ludwick have had as guests Mr. and Mrs. John J. Evans , Jr. , of `` Kimbolton House '' , Rockhall , Md. .
Mrs. Edward App will entertain the members of her Book Club on Tuesday .
Mrs. A. Voorhees Anderson entertained at a luncheon at her home , on Monday .
Mr. and Mrs. Major Morris and their son-in-law and daughter , Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Glennon , and their children will spend several days in Brigantine , N. J. .
Mr. and Mrs. James Janssen announce the birth of a daughter , Patricia Lynn Janssen , on March 2 .
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Marella announce the engagement of their daughter , Miss Mary Ann Marella , to Mr. Robert L. Orcutt , son of Mr. and Mrs. Donald R. Orcutt , of Drexel Hill .
Miss Eileen Grant is spending several weeks visiting in Florida .
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Heinze are entertaining Mr. Walter Lehner , of Vienna ; ;
Mr. and Mrs. Harry D. Hoaps , Jr. have returned to their home in Drexel Park , after spending some time in Delray Beach Fla. .
Mr. and Mrs. James F. Mitchell , with their daughter , Anne , and son , James , Jr. are spending several weeks in Florida , and will visit in Clearwater .
Cmdr. Warren Taylor , USN. , and Mrs. Taylor , of E. Greenwich , R. I. , will have with them for the Easter holidays the latter's parents , Mr. and Mrs. John B. Walbridge , of Drexel Hill .
Mr. and Mrs. L. DeForest Emmert , formerly of Drexel Hill , and now of Newtown Square , are entertaining Mr. and Mrs. Ashman E. Emmert , of Temple , Pa. .
Mrs. William H. Merner , of Drexel Park , entertained at a luncheon at her home on Wednesday .
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Brown will return next week from Bermuda .
Mrs. H. E. Godwin will entertain the members of her Book Club at her home on Tuesday .
Miss Vieth was graduated from the Louise S. McGehee school and is attending Wellesley College in Wellesley , Mass. .
Mr. Wall is a student at Tulane university , where he is a member of Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity .
Their Majesties , The Queen of Carnival and The Queen of Comus , have jointly issued invitations for Shrove Tuesday evening at midnight at which time they will entertain in the grand ballroom of a downtown hotel following the balls of Rex and Comus .
Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. McConnell and their son-in-law and daughter , Mr. and Mrs. Raymond B. Walker will be hosts this Tuesday evening at dinner at the State St. home of the Walkers honoring Mrs. McConnell's debutante niece , Miss Barbara Williams .
Debutante Miss Lady Helen Hardy will be feted at luncheon this Tuesday at which the hostess will be Mrs. Edwin Socola of Waveland , Miss. .
Another debutante , Miss Virginia Richmond , will also be the honoree this Wednesday at luncheon at which Mrs. John Dane , will be hostess entertaining at a downtown hotel .
When the Achaeans entertained Wednesday last at their annual Carnival masquerade ball , Miss Margaret Pierson was chosen to rule over the festivities , presented at the Muncipal Auditorium and chosen as her ladies in waiting were Misses Clayton Nairne , Eleanor Eustis , Lynn Chapman , Irwin Leatherman of Robinsonville , Miss. and Helene Rowley .
The mother of young queen , Mrs. G. Henry Pierson Jr. chose a white brocade gown made on slim lines with panels of tomato-red and bright green satin extending down the back .
The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad announced yesterday it would reduce the total amount of its payroll by 10 per cent through salary cuts and lay-offs effective at 12:01 A.M. next Saturday .
Howard E. Simpson , the railroad's president , said , `` A drastic decline in freight loading due principally to the severe slump in the movement of heavy goods has necessitated this regrettable action '' .
The reduction in expenses will affect employees in the thirteen states in which the B. & O. operates .
Salary cut and lay-offs
Since the railroad cannot reduce the salary of individual union members under contract , it must accomplish its payroll reduction by placing some of the men on furlough , a B. & O. spokesman said .
Those union members kept on their jobs , therefore , will not take a cut in their wages .
The spokesman said the number to be furloughed cannot be estimated since the lay-offs must be carried out in each area depending on what men are most needed on the job .
A thug struck a cab driver in the face with a pistol last night after robbing him of $18 at Franklin and Mount Streets .
The victim , Norman B. Wiley , 38 , of the 900 block North Charles Street , was treated for cuts at Franklin Square Hospital after the robbery .
The driver told police he followed as the Negro man got out of the cab with his money .
He said the assailant , who was armed with a automatic , entered the taxi at Pennsylvania Avenue and Gold Street .
In another attack , Samuel Verstandig , 41 , proprietor of a food store in the 2100 block Aiken Street , told police two Negroes assaulted him in his store and stole $150 from the cash register after choking and beating him .
A baby was burned to death and two other children were seriously injured last night in a fire which damaged their one-room Anne Arundel county home .
The victim Darnell Somerville , Negro , 1 , was pronounced dead on arrival at Anne Arundel General Hospital in Annapolis .
His sister and brother , Marie Louise , 3 , and John Raymond , Jr. 22 months , were admitted to the hospital .
Boy in fair condition
Police said the children's mother , Mrs. Eleanor Somerville , was visiting next door when the fire occurred .
The house is on Old Annapolis road a mile south of Severna Park , at Jones Station , police said .
The proposal was made by Dr. David S. Jenkins after he and Mrs. D. Ellwood Williams , Jr. , a board member and long-time critic of the superintendent , argued for about fifteen minutes at this week's meeting .
The disagreement was over what Dr. Jenkins had said at a previous session and how his remarks appeared in the minutes presented at the following meeting .
Cites discrepancies
`` I hate to have these things come up again and again '' , Dr. Jenkins commented as he made his suggestion .
For a number of years the board used a machine to keep a permanent record but abandoned the practice about two years ago .
It was about that time , a board member said later , that Dr. Thomas G. Pullen , Jr. , State superintendent of schools , told Dr. Jenkins and a number of other education officials that he would not talk to them with a recording machine sitting in front of him .
The Board of County Commissioners , the Sanitary Commission , the Planning and Zoning Board and other county official bodies use recording machines for all public business in order to prevent law suits and other misunderstandings about what actually happened at their meetings .
Dr. Jenkins notes , however , that most of the school boards in the State do not do so .
State Senator Joseph A. Bertorelli ( D. , First Baltimore ) had a stroke yesterday while in his automobile in the 200 block of West Pratt Street .
He was taken to University Hospital in a municipal ambulance .
Doctors at the hospital said he was partially paralyzed on the right side .
Police said he became ill while parked in front of a barber shop at 229 West Pratt Street .
Barber summoned
The vice president of the City Council complained yesterday that there are `` deficiencies '' in the city's snow clearing program which should be corrected as soon as possible .
Councilman William D. Schaefer ( D. , Fifth ) said in a letter to Mayor Grady that plowing and salting crews should be dispatched earlier in storms and should be kept on the job longer than they were last month .
Werner criticized
He said the snow plan was put in effect too slowly in December .
The Councilman , who is the Administration floor leader , also criticized Bernard L. Werner , public works director , for `` halting snow operations '' on Tuesday night after the Sunday storm .
Sent home for rest
Mr. Schaefer also recommended that the snow emergency route plan , under which parking is banned on key streets and cars are required to use snow tires or chains on them , should be `` strictly enforced '' .
Admitting that main streets and the central business district should have priority , the Councilman said it is also essential that small shopping areas `` not be overlooked if our small merchants are to survive '' .
Recounting personal observations of clearance work , the Councilman cited instances of inefficient use of equipment or supplies by poorly trained workers and urged that plow blades be set so they do not leave behind a thin layer of snow which eventually freezes .
The victims were H. Malone Dresbach , 47 , and his wife , Shirley , 46 .
automatic rifle , according to Capt. Elmer Hagner , chief of Anne Arundel detectives .
Judge Benjamin Michaelson signed the order remanding the boy to the hospital because of the lack of juvenile accommodations at the Anne Arundel County Jail .
Younger son calls police
The younger son told police his brother had run from the house after the shootings and had driven away in their mother's car .
The description of the car was immediately broadcast throughout Southern Maryland on police radio .
Two brothers adopted
Trooper J. A. Grzesiak spotted the wanted car , with three boys , at a Route 2 service station , just outside Annapolis .
Mr. Simpkins will move into the post being vacated by Thomas B. Finan , earlier named Attorney General to succeed C. Ferdinand Sybert , who will be elevated to an associate judgeship on the Maryland Court of Appeals .
Governor Tawes announced that a triple swearing-in ceremony will be held in his office next Friday .
Simpkins from Somerset
Now 38 , Mr. Simpkins was graduated from the University of Maryland's College of Agriculture in 1947 .
Five years later , he was awarded the university's degree in law .
Mr. Simpkins made a name for himself as a member of the House of Delegates from 1951 through 1958 .
Maryland contracts for future construction during October totaled $77,389,000 , up to 10 per cent compared to October , 1960 , F. W. Dodge , Dodge Corporation , reported .
Dodge reported the following breakdown :
Nonresidential at $20,447,000 , down 28 per cent ; ;
The cumulative total of construction contracts for the first ten months of 1961 amounted to $634,517,000 , a 4 per cent increase compared to the corresponding period of last year .
A breakdown of the ten-month total showed :
Nonresidential at $253,355,000 , up 22 per cent ; ;
Residential building consists of houses , apartments , hotels , dormitories and other buildings designed for shelter .
The share of the new housing market enjoyed by apartments , which began about six years ago , has more than tripled within that span of time .
In 1961 , it is estimated that multiple unit dwellings will account for nearly 30 per cent of the starts in residential construction .
While availability of mortgage money has been a factor in encouraging apartment construction , the generally high level of prosperity in the past few years plus rising consumer income are among the factors that have encouraged builders to concentrate in the apartment-building field .
Although economic and personal circumstances vary widely among those now choosing apartments , Leo J. Pantas , vice president of a hardware manufacturing company , pointed out recently that many apartment seekers seem to have one characteristic in common : a desire for greater convenience and freedom from the problems involved in maintaining a house .
Convenience held key
Sixty-seven living units are being added to the 165-unit Harbor View Apartments in the Cherry Hill section .
Ultimately the development will comprise 300 units , in two-story and three-story structures .
The structures housing the apartments are of masonry and frame construction .
Construction in 1962 will account for about 15 per cent of the gross national product , according to a study by Johns-Manville Corporation .
London , Feb. 9
The Dreadnought was built on designs supplied by the United States in 1959 and was launched last year .
Five held for trial
Two British civil servants , Miss Ethel Gee , 46 , and her newly devoted friend , Harry Houghton , 55 , and divorced .
Gordon A. Lonsdale , 37 , a mystery man presumed to be Russian although he carries a Canadian passport .
Flashed to Moscow
( In Washington , the Federal Bureau of Investigation identified the Krogers as Morris and Lola Cohen , an American couple formerly of New York City )
.
All five pleaded innocent .
Refuses to grant bail
The trial will be held , probably the first week of March , in the famous Old Bailey central criminal court where Klaus Fuchs , the naturalized British German born scientist who succeeded in giving American and British atomic bomb secrets to Russia and thereby changed world history during the 1950s , was sentenced to 14 years in prison .
Fourteen years is the maximum penalty now faced by the new five , who may have altered history in the 1960s .
The magistrate tonight refused to return to the five $29,000 in American and British currency , mostly $20 bills , and in British government bonds and stocks .
`` This is Russian money '' , said Mervin Griffith-Jones for the attorney general's office .
`` Of highest value ''
But just before luncheon today the fact was announced grimly by the British navy's chief adviser to the cabinet on underwater warfare , Capt. George Symonds .
The information , he said , would have been of the highest value to a potential enemy .
Court cleared
The British defending lawyers , who today increased from three to four , demanded to know if they could make the information involved seem of little value to a jury , the chances of their clients would improve .
Almost any information about the Dreadnought would also reveal secrets about the American underwater fleet .
With the machinery went a complete design for the hull .
The Skipjack was a second generation atomic sub , much advanced on the Nautilus and the other four which preceded it .
Navy's future involved
`` Her basic hull form ( a teardrop ) and her nuclear power plant will be used for almost all new submarines , including the potent Polaris missile submarines '' , the statement went on .
The atom reactor , water cooled , was the result of almost a decade of research at the naval reactors branch of the atomic energy commission and Westinghouse Electric Corp. .
The hull was also a result of almost a decade of work .
The Skipjack became the fastest submarine ever built .
It was of the hunter-killer type , designed to seek out ships and other submarines with its most advanced gear and destroy them with torpedoes .
The navy captain disclosed also that a list of questions found in Miss Gee's purse would , if completed and handed back , have given the Kremlin a complete picture `` of our current anti-submarine effort and would have shown what we are doing in research and development for the future '' .
Interested in detector
Six radiomen told how , twice on two days after the ring was nabbed , a transmitter near Moscow was heard calling , using signals , times and wavelengths specified on codes found hidden in cigaret lighters in Lonsdale's apartment and the Krogers' house and also fastened to the transmitter lid .
The charge that the federal indictment of three Chicago narcotics detail detectives `` is the product of rumor , combined with malice , and individual enmity '' on the part of the federal narcotics unit here was made yesterday in their conspiracy trial before Judge Joseph Sam Perry in federal District court .
The three -- Miles J. Cooperman , Sheldon Teller , and Richard Austin -- and eight other defendants are charged in six indictments with conspiracy to violate federal narcotic laws .
In his opening statement to a jury of eight women and four men , Bernard H. Sokol , attorney for the detectives , said that evidence would show that his clients were `` entirely innocent '' .
' had to know peddlers '
Although federal and city narcotic agents sometimes worked together , Sokol continued , rivalries developed when they were `` aiming at the same criminals '' .
`` In the same five year period that the United States says they ( the detectives ) were engaged in this conspiracy '' , Sokol continued , `` these three young men received a total of 26 creditable mentions and many special compensations , and were nominated for the Lambert Tree award and the mayor's medal '' .
No comments by U.S.
Cooperman and Teller are accused of selling $4,700 worth of heroin to a convicted narcotics peddler , Otis Sears , 45 , of 6934 Indiana Av. .
The first witness , Moses Winston Mardis , 5835 Michigan Av. , a real estate agent and former bail bondsman , took the stand after opening statements had been made .
Buaford Robinson , 23 , of 7026 Stewart Av. , a CTA bus driver , was slugged and robbed last night by a group of youths at 51st Street and South Park Way .
Robinson told Policemen James Jones and Morgan Lloyd of the Wabash Avenue district that 10 youths boarded his south bound express bus in front of Dunbar Vocational High School , 30th Street and South Park Way , and began `` skylarking '' .
When 51st Street was reached , Robinson related , he stopped the bus and told the youths he was going to call the CTA supervisor .
Mrs. Blanche Dunkel , 60 , who has spent 25 years in the Dwight reformatory for women for the murder in 1935 of her son-in-law , Ervin Lang , then 28 , appealed for a parole at a hearing yesterday before two Illinois pardon and parole board members , John M. Bookwalter and Joseph Carpentier .
Mrs. Dunkel admitted the slaying and said that the son-in-law became her lover after the death of her daughter in 1934 .
The son of a wealthy Evanston executive was fined $100 yesterday and forbidden to drive for 60 days for leading an Evanston policeman on a high speed chase over icy Evanston and Wilmette streets Jan. 20 .
The defendant , William L. Stickney 3 , 23 , of 3211 Park pl. , Evanston , who pleaded guilty to reckless driving , also was ordered by Judge James Corcoran to attend the Evanston traffic school each Tuesday night for one month .
Stickney is a salesman for Plee-Zing , Inc. , 2544 Green Bay Rd. , Evanston , a food brokerage and grocery chain firm , of which his father , William L. Jr. , is president .
Patrolman James F. Simms said he started in pursuit when he saw young Stickney speeding north in Stewart Avenue at Central Street .
At Jenks Street , Simms said , the car skidded completely around , just missed two parked cars , and sped east in Jenks .
The car spun around again , Simms said , before Stickney could turn north in Prairie Avenue , and then violated two stop lights as he traveled north into Wilmette in Prairie .
St. Johns , Mich. , April 19 .
-- A jury of seven men and five women found 21-year-old Richard Pohl guilty of manslaughter yesterday in the bludgeon slaying of Mrs. Anna Hengesbach .
Pohl received the verdict without visible emotion .
Stepson vindicated
Hengesbach has been living under a cloud ever since .
`` I am very pleased to have the doubt of suspicion removed .
Lives on welfare
Hengesbach has been living in Grand Ledge since his house and barn were burned down after his release in 1958 .
Pohl confessed the arson while being questioned about several fires in the Westphalia area by State Police .
He also admitted killing Mrs. Hengesbach .
Charges in doubt
Circuit Judge Paul R. Cash did not set a date for sentencing .
Walker said he was considering filing a motion for a new trial which would contend that the verdict was against the weight of the evidence and that there were several errors in trial procedure .
Locked in motel
The jury foreman , Mrs. Olive Heideman , of rural Elsie , said that a ballot was not even taken until yesterday morning and that the first day of deliberation was spent in going over the evidence .
She said the jurors agreed that Pohl's confession was valid .
The jury asked Judge Cash to send in his written definition of the difference between first and second-degree murder and manslaughter .
The verdict came three hours later .
Some 30 spectators remained in the court during the day and were on hand to hear the verdict read .
A Sterling Township family of six surviving children , whose mother died yesterday as the aftermath to a fire that also killed one of the children , found today they had the help of hundreds of neighbors and school friends .
While neighbor women assumed some of the dead mother's duties , fund-raising events were being planned by a homeowners association and a student council for the hard-hit Henry Kowalski family , 34220 Viceroy .
Mrs. Eleanor Kowalski , 42 , died yesterday afternoon in Holy Cross Hospital of burns suffered in a fire that followed a bottled gas explosion Saturday night at the flat of her widowed mother , Mrs. Mary Pankowski , in the adjoining suburb of Warren .
Services tomorrow
The mother and daughter , who will be buried side by side in Mt. Olivet Cemetery , rested together today in closed caskets at the Lyle Elliott Funeral Home , 31730 Mound , Warren .
Mrs. Pankowski , 61 , remained in Holy Cross Hospital as a result of the explosion , which occurred while Mrs. Kowalski fueled a cook stove in the grandmother's small upstairs flat at 2274 Eight Mile Road East .
Held candle
Christine's twin sister , Patricia , and Darlene Kowalski , 8 , escaped with minor burns .
`` All we have left in the world is one another , and we must stay together the way Mother wanted '' , Kowalski said in telling his children of their mother's death yesterday afternoon .
Kowalski , a roofer who seldom worked last winter , already was in arrears on their recently purchased split-level home when the tragedy staggered him with medical and funeral bills .
A135 donated
Another neighbor , Mrs. Frank C. Smith , 2731 Pall Mall , Sterling Township , surprised Kowalski by coming to the home yesterday with $135 collected locally toward the $400 funeral costs .
John C. Houghton , president of the Tareytown Acres Homeowners Association , followed that by announcing plans last night for a door-to-door fund drive throughout their subdivision on behalf of the Kowalski family .
Students help out
Vicky Kowalski meanwhile learned that several of her fellow students had collected almost $25 for her family during the lunch hour yesterday at Fuhrmann Junior High School , 5155 Fourteen Mile road east .
Principal Clayton W. Pohly said he would allow a further collection between classes today , and revealed that Y-Teen Club past surpluses had been used to provide a private hospital nurse Monday for Mrs. Kowalski .
Funds from dances
`` Furhmann's faculty is proud that this has been a spontaneous effort , started largely among the students themselves , because of fondness for Vicky and sympathy for her entire family , Pohly said .
There also were reports of a collection at the County Line Elementary School , 3505o Dequindre , which has been attended this year by four of the Kowalski children including Christine .
Expresses thanks
`` I never knew there were such neighbors and friends around me and my family .
An alert 10-year-old safety patrol boy was congratulated by police today for his part in obtaining a reckless driving conviction against a youthful motorist .
Patrolman George Kimmell , of McClellan Station , said he would recommend a special safety citation for Ralph Sisk , 9230 Vernor east , a third grader at the Scripps School , for his assistance in the case .
Kimmell said he and Ralph were helping children across Belvidere at Kercheval Monday afternoon when a car heading north on Belvidere stopped belatedly inside the pedestrian crosswalk .
Gets car number
Commandeering a passing car , Kimmell pursued the fleeing vehicle , but lost it in traffic .
The motorist later was identified as Richard Sarkees , 17 , of 2433 McClellan , currently on probation and under court order not to drive .
Given 15 days
The long crisis in Laos appeared nearing a showdown today .
Britain announced that it is asking the Soviet Union to agree tomorrow to an immediate cease-fire .
Help asked
Britain's plans to press Russia for a definite cease-fire timetable was announced in London by Foreign Secretary Lord Home .
He said Britain also proposed that the international truce commission should be reconvened , sent to New Delhi and from there to Laos to verify the cease-fire .
A 14-power conference on Laos should then meet on May 5 , he said .
Plea for arms
He declared the government is thinking of asking for foreign troops if the situation worsens .
One of the first moves made after a cabinet decision was to request the United States to establish a full-fledged military assistance group instead of the current civilian body .
A note making the request was handed to U.S. Ambassador Winthrop G. Brown .
Heavy support
The minister , describing the attacks which led up to the appeal , said that 60,000 Communist North Vietnamese were fighting royal army troops on one front -- near Thakhek , in southern-central Laos .
There was no confirmation of such massive assaults from independent sources .
-- Two Americans and seven Cubans were executed by firing squads today as Castro military tribunals began decreeing the death penalty for captured invasion forces and suspected collaborators .
A Havana radio broadcast identified the Americans as Howard Anderson and August Jack McNair .
The executions took place at dawn only a few hours after Havana radio announced their conviction by a revolutionary tribunal at Pinar Del Rio , where the executions took place .
Arms plot charged
Anderson operated three Havana automobile service stations and was commander of the Havana American Legion post before it disbanded since the start of Fidel Castro's regime .
Anderson's wife and four children live in Miami .
McNair , 25 , was seized March 20 with four Cubans and accused of trying to land a boatload of rifles in Pinar Del Rio , about 35 miles from Havana .
Report others held
Among them were a number of newsmen , including Henry Raymont , of United Press International , and Robert Berrellez , of Associated Press .
So many Cubans were reported being swept into the Castro dragnet that the massive Sports Palace auditorium and at least one hotel were converted into makeshift jails .
Of the millions who have served time in concentration camps in Siberia as political prisoners of the Soviet state , few emerge in the West to tell about it .
M. Kegham -- the name is a pseudynom -- was a teacher in Bucharest and a member of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation ( ARF ) -- two reasons the Communists put him away when they arrived in 1945 .
Today , M. Kegham was in Detroit , en route to join his wife and children in California .
Emory University's Board of Trustees announced Friday that it was prepared to accept students of any race as soon as the state's tax laws made such a step possible .
`` Emory University's charter and by-laws have never required admission or rejection of students on the basis of race '' , board chairman Henry L. Bowden stated .
But an official statement adopted by the 33-man Emory board at its annual meeting Friday noted that state taxing requirements at present are a roadblock to accepting Negroes .
The statement explained that under the Georgia Constitution and state law , tax-exempt status is granted to educational institutions only if they are segregated .
`` Emory could not continue to operate according to its present standards as an institution of higher learning , of true university grade , and meet its financial obligations , without the tax-exemption privileges which are available to it only so long as it conforms to the aforementioned constitutional and statutory provisions '' , the statement said .
The statement did not mention what steps might be taken to overcome the legal obstacles to desegregation .
An Emory spokesman indicated , however , that the university itself did not intend to make any test of the laws .
The Georgia Constitution gives the Legislature the power to exempt colleges from property taxation if , among other criteria , `` all endowments to institutions established for white people shall be limited to white people , and all endowments to institutions established for colored people shall be limited to colored people '' .
At least two private colleges in the Atlanta area now or in the past have had integrated student bodies , but their tax-exempt status never has been challenged by the state .
Emory is affiliated with the Methodist Church .
Urged in 1954
`` From its beginning '' , the trustees' statement said Friday , `` Emory University has assumed as its primary commitment a dedication to excellence in Christian higher learning .
`` As a private institution , supported by generous individuals , Emory University will recognize no obligation and will adopt no policy that would conflict with its purpose to promote excellence in scholarship and Christian education .
`` There is not now , nor has there ever been in Emory University's charter or by-laws any requirement that students be admitted or rejected on the basis of race , color or creed .
Corporate existence
`` When and if it can do so without jeopardizing constitutional and statutory tax-exemption privileges essential to the maintenance of its educational program and facilities , Emory University will consider applications of persons desiring to study or work at the University without regard to race , color or creed , continuing university policy that all applications shall be considered on the basis of intellectual and moral standards and other criteria designed to assure the orderly and effective conduct of the university and the fulfillment of its mission as an institution of Christian higher education '' .
A young man was killed and two others injured at midnight Friday when the car they were riding slid into a utility pole on Lake Avenue near Waddell Street , NE , police said .
The dead youth was identified as Robert E. Sims , 19 , of 1688 Oak Knoll Cir. , Aj .
Patrolman G. E. Hammons said the car evidently slid out of control on rain-slick streets and slammed into the pole .
The other occupants were James Willard Olvey , 18 , of 963 Ponce De Leon Ave. , NE , and Larry Coleman Barnett , 19 , of 704 Hill St. , SE , both of whom were treated at Grady Hospital for severe lacerations and bruises .
The Atlanta Negro student movement renewed its demands for movie theater integration Friday and threatened picketing and `` stand-ins '' if negotiations failed .
The demands were set forth in letters to seven owners of first-run theaters by the Committee on Appeal for Human Rights .
' intend to attend '
The letters set a Nov. 15 deadline for the start of negotiations .
Downtown and art theater managers and owners , contacted Friday night for comment on the COAHR request , said they had no knowledge of such a letter , and that it was not in the Friday mail .
Gather here
Student leaders began sporadic efforts to negotiate theater integration several months ago .
Friday's letters asked for a Nov. 15 meeting .
Black said COAHR `` hoped to be able to integrate the theaters without taking direct action , but we are pledged to using every legal and nonviolent means at our disposal ''
A prepared statement released by the student group Friday stated that `` extensive research by COAHR into techniques and methods of theater integration in other cities indicated that the presence of picket lines and stand-ins before segregated theaters causes a drop in profits ''
Besides managers of downtown theaters , the students sent letters to owners of art theaters in the uptown area and Buckhead .
R. E. Killingsworth
Mr. Kililngsworth was a foreman with S and W Cafeteria .
Survivors include two brothers , C. E. Killingsworth , Atlanta , and John Killingsworth , Warren , Ohio ; ;
John W. Ball
Mr. Ball was a house painter .
Funeral services will be at 2 p.m. Tuesday at Blanchard's Chapel with the Rev. J. H. Hearn officiating .
Survivors include his sister , Mrs. Emma B. Odom of Atlanta .
Mrs. Lola Harris
Survivors include a son , Charles R. Fergeson , Memphis , Tenn. ; ;
A 24-year-old Atlanta man was arrested Sunday after breaking into the home of relatives in search of his wife , hitting his uncle with a rock and assaulting two police officers who tried to subdue him , police said .
Patrolmen J. W. Slate and A. L. Crawford Jr. said they arrested Ronald M. Thomas , of 1671 Nakoma St. , NW , after he assaulted the officers .
Police account
Thomas early Sunday went to the home of his uncle and aunt , Mr. and Mrs. R. C. Thomas , 511 Blanche St. , NW , looking for his wife , Margaret Lou Thomas , 18 , and their 11-month-old baby .
The younger Thomas ripped a screen door , breaking the latch , and after an argument struck his uncle with a rock , scratching his face .
When police arrived the man was still violent , Slate said .
Attacks officer
He was then subdued and placed in the police car to be taken to Grady Hospital for treatment of scratches received in the melee .
Slate said he and Crawford received cuts and scratches and their uniforms were badly torn .
Thomas was charged with four counts of assault and battery .
Mrs. Mary Self , who knows more than any other person about the 5,000 city employes for whom she has kept personnel records over the years , has closed her desk and retired .
Over the weekend , Mrs. Self , personnel clerk , was a feted and honored guest of the Atlanta Club , organization of women employes at City Hall .
After 18 years in the personnel office , she has taken a disability pension on advice of her doctors .
As personnel clerk , she handled thousands of entries , ranging from appointments to jobs , to transfers to other employments , to pensions .
`` I have enjoyed it and will feel a bit lost at least for a while '' , she said wistfully Friday .
One of the largest crowds in the club's history turned out to pay tribute to Mrs. Self and her service .
Georgia's Department of Agriculture is intensifying its fire ant eradication program in an effort to stay ahead of the fast-spreading pest .
The department is planning to expand its eradication program soon to four additional counties -- Troup , Pierce , Bryan and Bulloch -- to treat 132,000 acres infested by the ants , according to W. E. Blasingame state entomologist .
Low-flying planes will spread a granular-type chemical , heptachlor , over 30,000 acres in Troup , 37,000 acres in Pierce and 65,000 acres in Bulloch and Bryan counties .
The eradication effort is being pushed in Bibb and Jones counties , over 37,679 acres .
Also being treated are Houston , Bleckley , Tift , Turner and Dodge counties , Blasingame said .
The north-bound entrance to the Expressway at 14th Street will be closed during the afternoon rush traffic hours this week .
This is being done so that Georgia Tech can complete the final phase of a traffic survey on the North Expressway .
Incidentally , 14th Street and the Expressway is the high accident intersection during daylight hours .
Four persons died in Georgia weekend traffic crashes , two of them in a fiery crash near Snellville , the State Patrol said Sunday .
The latest death reported was that of 4-year-old Claude Douglas Maynor of Calvary .
That death occurred at 50 p.m. Friday and was reported Sunday , the patrol said .
Bursts into flames
Bobby Bester Hammett , 21 , of Rte. 3 , Lawrenceville , and Mrs. Lucille Herrington Jones , 23 , of Lawrenceville , died in the flaming car , the patrol said .
Salem ( special )
It is the only county in the state so far this month reporting a possible shortage in GA category , for which emergency allotment can be given by the state if necessary .
William Smythe , director of field service , told the commissioners that Multnomah , as of Aug. 22 , had spent $58,918 out of its budgeted $66,000 in the category , leaving only $7,082 for the rest of the month .
At the rate of need indicated in the early weeks of the month , this could mean a shortage of as high as $17,000 .
Board oks pact
The contract with Ray Field , who has been converting the agencies electronic data processing program to magnetic tape , would renew his present salary of $8 an hour up to a maximum of 200 hours a month .
Field does the planning for the machine operations and fiscal processes and the adapting of the data processing system to new programs as they are made necessary by legislative and policy changes .
Acting Administrator Andrew F. Juras said that because of Field's unique position and knowledge in the program , the agency now would be seriously handicapped if he was not continued for a period .
But he emphasized that the agency must train people within its own employ to fulfill what Field handles , and he said he personally `` regrets very much that the agency has not done this in the past '' .
He pointed out to the commissioners that the agency was literally dependent now on the machine processing , `` and the whole wheels of the agency would stop if it broke down or the three or four persons directing it were to leave '' .
Salary termed modest
`` Do you feel you can stand up to the next legislative session and defend this contract '' ? ?
`` My feeling at the moment '' , he said , `` is that we have no alternative , irrespective of some of the arguments about him .
Harvey criticized
A publicity release from Oregon Physicians Service , of which Harvey is president , quoted him as saying the welfare office move to Salem , instead of `` crippling '' the agency , had provided an avenue to correct administrative weaknesses , with the key being improved communications between F & A and the commission staff .
`` I rather resent '' , she said , `` you speaking to those groups in Portland as though just the move accomplished this .
Harvey said his objective was to create a better public image for welfare '' .
The wife of convicted bank robber Lawrence G. Huntley was arrested in Phoenix , Ariz. , last week and will be returned to Portland to face charges of assault and robbery , Portland detectives said Friday .
Mrs. Lavaughn Huntley is accused of driving the getaway car used in a robbery of the Woodyard Bros.' Grocery , 2825 E. Burnside St. , in April of 1959 .
Her husband , who was sentenced to 15 years in the federal prison at McNeil Island last April for robbery of the Hillsdale branch of Multnomah Bank , also was charged with the store holdup .
The Phoenix arrest culminates more than a year's investigation by Detective William Taylor and other officers .
Mrs. Huntley was held on $20,000 bond in Phoenix .
A 12-year-old girl , Susan Elaine Smith , 9329 NE Schuyler St. was in serious condition Friday at Bess Kaiser Hospital , victim of a bicycle-auto collision in the Gateway Shopping Center , parking area , Deputy Sheriff W. H. Forsyth reported .
Funeral for William Joseph Brett , 1926 NE 50th Ave. , who died Thursday in Portland , will be Monday 1 p.m. at the Riverview Abbey .
Mr. Brett , born in Brooklyn , N.Y. , Dec. 15 , 1886 , came to Portland in 1920 .
Survivors are his widow , Alice ; ;
Employes of Montgomery Ward & Co. at The Dalles , in a National Labor Relations Board election Thursday voted to decertify Local 1565 , Retail Clerks International Association , AFL-CIO , as their collective bargaining agent .
The NLRB said that of 11 potentially eligible voters eight voted against the union , two voted for it , and one vote was challenged .
Monte Brooks , 67 , theatrical producer and band leader , collapsed and died Thursday in a Lloyd Center restaurant .
For many years he had provided music and entertainment for functions throughout the Northwest .
He collaborated with many of the big name entertainers visiting Portland , among the most recent being Jimmy Durante and Phil Silvers .
He had conducted the 20-piece band in a series of concerts at Blue Lake park during the summer months .
Mr. Brooks was born in New York , and came to Portland in 1920 .
He was a member of Harmony lodge , No. 12 , AF & AM , Scottish Rite ; ;
He was a former commander of Willamette Heights , Post , and a member of Nevah Sholom Congregation .
Survivors are his widow , Tearle ; ;
Services will be at 30 p.m. Monday at Holman & Son Funeral Home , with interment in Neveh Zebek cemetery .
A 16-year-old Portland businessman and his Junior Achievement company , have been judged the `` Company of the Year '' in national competition completed this week at Ohio State University , Columbus , Ohio .
Tim Larson , a junior at Wilson High School and president of Spice-Nice , is the young executive who guided his firm to the top-ranking position over the 4,500 other Junior Achievement companies in the United States and Canada .
Spice-Nice , counseled by Georgia-Pacific Corp. , had previously taken first-place honors in both local competition and the regional conference at San Francisco .
Youngsters do business
National competition was the culmination of work which began with the school year last fall and continued until just before summer vacation .
For winning Larson will receive a $100 U.S. Savings Bond from the Junior Achievement national organization .
g-p men served
Young Larson is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Larson , 5847 SW Nevada Ct. , Portland .
Other members of the Portland delegation attending the conference in Columbus are : Kathleen Mason , Jefferson high school ; ;
On the day's schedule are a flower show , 4-H horsemanship contest and clown shows , the latter at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. .
Attendance continued to run ahead of last year's during the five-day show , with clear skies helping attract fairgoers .
Exhibition ballroom dancers from the studio of Helen Wick Walters of Hillsboro won the all-county talent contest .
Results :
Tom Day of Beaverton exhibited the grand champion 4-H market hog , a Chester White .
Swine showmanship championship went to Bob Day , with Tom Day and Hutchins winning other blues .
Charles Reynolds of Pumpkin Ridge was rabbit showmanship champion .
In poultry judging , blues were won by John Nyberg of Tualatin , Anne Batchelder of Hillsboro , Jim Shaw of Hillsboro , Stephanie Shaw of Hillsboro and Lynn Robinson of Tigard .
Blue ribbon for one dozen white eggs was taken by Nyberg .
In open class poultry , Donald Wacklin of Sherwood had the champion male and female bird and grand champion bird .
John Haase & Son of Corneilus was the only entrant in open class swine and swept all championships .
Carol Strong , 13 , of Cedar Mill cooked the championship junior dollar dinner .
Barbara Borland of Tigard took top senior individual home economics honors with a demonstration called filbert hats .
About 70 North Providence taxpayers made appeals to the board of tax assessors for a review of their 1961 tax assessments during the last two days at the town hall in Centredale .
These were the last two days set aside by the board for hearing appeals .
Louis H. Grenier , clerk of the board , said that the appeals will be reviewed in December at the time the board is visiting new construction sites in the town for assessment purposes .
Any adjustments which are made , Mr. Grenier said earlier this month , will appear on the balance of the tax bill since most of the town's taxpayers take the option of paying quarterly with the balance due next year .
John Pezza , 69 , of 734 Hartford Avenue , Providence , complained of shoulder pains after an accident in which a car he was driving collided with a car driven by Antonio Giorgio , 25 , of 12 DeSoto St. , Providence , on Greenville Avenue and Cherry Hill Road in Johnston yesterday .
Mr. Giorgio had started to turn left off Greenville Avenue onto Cherry Hill Road when his car was struck by the Pezza car , police said .
Mr. Pezza was taken to a nearby Johnston physician , Dr. Allan A. DiSimone , who treated him .
Thieves yesterday ransacked a home in the Garden Hills section of Cranston and stole an estimated $3,675 worth of furs , jewels , foreign coins and American dollars .
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen M. Kochanek reported the theft at their home on 41 Garden Hills Drive at about 6 last night .
One of the rings was a white gold band with a diamond setting , valued at $900 .
The Kochaneks told police they left home at 8 a.m. and returned about 45 p.m. and found the house had been entered .
The city sewer maintenance division said efforts will be made Sunday to clear a stoppage in a sewer connection at Eddy and Elm Streets responsible for dumping raw sewage into the Providence River .
The division said it would be impossible to work on the line until then because of the large amount of acid sewage from jewelry plants in the area flowing through the line , heavy vehicle traffic on Eddy Street and tide conditions .
A two-family house at 255 Brook Street has been purchased by Brown University from Lawrence J. Sullivan , according to a deed filed Monday at City Hall .
Employes of Pawtucket's garbage and rubbish collection contractor picketed the firm's incinerator site yesterday in the second day of a strike for improved wages and working conditions .
Thomas Rotelli , head of Rhode Island Incinerator Service , Inc. , said four of the company's eight trucks were making collections with both newly hired and regular workers .
Sydney Larson , a staff representative for the United Steel Workers , which the firm's 25 workers joined before striking , said the state Labor Relations Board has been asked to set up an election to pick a bargaining agent .
A 62-year-old Smithfield man , Lester E. Stone of 19 Beverly Circle , was in satisfactory condition last night at Our Lady of Fatima Hospital , North Providence , with injuries suffered when a car he was driving struck a utility pole on Woonasquatucket Avenue in North Providence near Stevens Street .
Mr. Stone suffered fractured ribs and chest cuts , hospital authorities said .
Before hitting the pole , Mr. Stone's car brushed against a car driven by Alva W. Vernava , 21 , of 23 Maple Ave. , North Providence , tearing away the rear bumper and denting the left rear fender of the Vernava car , police said .
The impact with the utility pole caused a brief power failure in the immediate area of the accident .
The fight over the Warwick School Committee's appointment of a coordinator of audio-visual education may go to the state Supreme Court , it appeared last night .
Two members of the Democratic-endorsed majority on the school board said they probably would vote to appeal a ruling by the state Board of Education , which said yesterday that the school committee acted improperly in its appointment of the coordinator , Francis P. Nolan 3rd , the Democratic-endorsed committee chairman , could not be reached for comment .
In its ruling , the state Board of Education upheld Dr. Michael F. Walsh , state commissioner of education , who had ruled previously that the Warwick board erred when it named Maurice F. Tougas as coordinator of audio-visual education without first finding that the school superintendent's candidate was not suitable .
Supt. Clarence S. Taylor had recommended Roger I. Vermeersch for the post .
Milton and Rosella Lovett of Cranston were awarded $55,000 damages from the state in Superior Court yesterday for industrial property which they owned at 83 Atwells Ave. , Providence , and which was condemned for use in construction of Interstate Route 95 .
The award was made by Judge Fred B. Perkins who heard their petition without a jury by agreement of the parties .
The award , without interest , compared with a valuation of $57,500 placed on the property by the property owners' real estate expert , and a valuation of $52,500 placed on it by the state's expert .
The property included a one-story brick manufacturing building on 8,293 square feet of land .
Saul Hodosh represented the owners .
Santa's lieutenants in charge of the Journal-Bulletin Santa Claus Fund are looking for the usual generous response this year from Cranston residents .
Persons who find it convenient may send their contributions to the Journal-Bulletin's Cranston office at 823 Park Avenue .
The fund's statewide quota this year is $8,250 to provide Christmas gifts for needy youngsters .
Cranston residents have been generous contributors to the fund over the years .
Bernard Parrillo , 20 , of 19 Fletcher Ave. , Cranston , was admitted to Roger Williams Hospital shortly before 11:30 a.m. yesterday after a hunting accident in which a shotgun he was carrying discharged against his heel .
Mr. Parrillo was given first aid at Johnston Hose 1 .
Hospital officials said the injury was severe but the youth was in good condition last night .
A check for $4,177.37 representing the last payment of a $50,000 federal grant to Rhode Island Hospital was presented to the hospital administrator , Oliver G. Pratt , yesterday by Governor Notte .
The hospital has used the money to assist in alterations on the fifth floor of the Jane Brown Hospital , part of Rhode Island Hospital .
Vincent Sorrentino , founder and board chairman of the Uncas Mfg. Co. , has been designated a Cavaliere of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Italy .
The decoration will be presented by A. Trichieri , Italian consul general in Boston , at a ceremony at 30 p.m. on Dec. 7 at the plant , which this year is celebrating its golden anniversary .
Mr. Sorrentino will be honored on the evening of Dec. 7 at a dinner to be given by the Aurora Club at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel .
The Newport-based destroyer picket escort Kretchmer has arrived back at Newport after three months' patrol in North Atlantic waters marked by mercy jobs afloat and ashore .
On Sept. 6 , the Kretchmer rescued the crew of a trawler they found drifting on a life raft after they had abandoned a sinking ship .
U.S. Attorney Macon Weaver said the federal complaint , charged that the juror gave false information when asked about Ku Klux Klan membership during selection of jury .
He identified the man as Lewis Martin Parker , 59 , a farmer of Hartselle , Ala. .
Eight men were tried together in U.S. District Court in Anniston , Ala. , on charges of interfering with interstate transportation and conspiracy growing out of a white mob's attack on a Greyhound bus carrying the first of the Freedom Riders .
One of the eight defendants was freed on a directed verdict of acquittal .
The arrest of Mr. Parker marks the third charge of wrongdoing involving the jury that heard the case .
The first incident occurred before the trial got under way when Judge H. Hobart Grooms told the jury panel he had heard reports of jury-tampering efforts .
He asked members of the panel to tell him if anyone outside the court had spoken to them about the case .
Then , when the case went to the jury , the judge excused one of the jurors , saying the juror had told him he had been accosted by masked men at his motel the night before the trial opened .
No formal charges have been filed as a result of either of the two reported incidents .
At the opening of the trial , the jury panel was questioned as a group by Mr. Weaver about Ku Klux Klan connections .
One member of the panel -- not Mr. Parker -- indicated he had been a member of the KKK at one time .
The perjury charge against Mr. Parker carries a maximum penalty of $2,000 fine and five years imprisonment on conviction .
The new president is 37-year-old Dr. James McN. Hester , currently dean of the NYU Graduate School of Arts and Sciences .
Dr. Hester , also one of the youngest men ever to head a major American university , succeeds Dr. Carroll V. Newsom who resigned last September to join Prentice-Hall Inc. publishing firm .
Dr. Hester , of Princeton , N.J. , is a native of Chester , Pa. He joined NYU in September , 1960 .
Asilomar , March 26
`` It is like handing a loaded automatic to an 8-year-old and telling him to run out and play '' , he commented .
Buchheister told delegates to the West Coast Audubon Convention that aerial spraying in Louisiana failed to destroy its target , the fire ant .
`` But it did destroy the natural controls of a borer and released a new plague that wrecked a sugar cane crop '' , he said .
The conservation leader said other mistakes in spraying had caused serious damage in Ohio and Wyoming .
`` The news of their experiments reaches the farmers who , forgetting that birds are the most efficient natural enemies of insects and rodents , are encouraged to try to get rid of all birds that occasionally peck their grapes or their blueberries '' , Buchheister told the delegates .
In addition to urging greater restrictions on aerial spraying , Buchheister called for support of the Wilderness bill , creation of national seashore parks , including Point Reyes ; ;
The Reed Rogers Da Fonta Wild Life Sanctuary in Marin county on Friday officially became the property of the National Audubon Society .
Mrs. Norman Livermore , president of the Marin Conservation League , handed over the deed to the 645-acre tidelands tract south of Greenwood Beach to Carl W. Buchheister , president of the Society .
The presentation was made before several hundred persons at the annual meeting of the League at Olney Hall , College of Marin , Kentfield .
Buchheister pledged the land would be an `` inviolate '' sanctuary for all birds , animals and plants .
Seventeen years ago today , German scientist Willy Fiedler climbed into a makeshift cockpit installed in a V-1 rocket-bomb that was attached to the underbelly of a Heinkel bomber .
The World War 2 , German bomber rolled down a runway and took off .
The only way Fiedler could get back to earth alive was to fly the pulse jet missile and land it on the airstrip .
Now a quiet-spoken , middle-aged man , Fiedler is an aeronautical engineer for Lockheed's Missiles and Space Division at Sunnyvale , where he played a key role in the development of the Navy's Polaris missile .
He sat in his office yesterday and recalled that historic flight in 1944 .
`` The first two pilots had crashed '' , he said .
Fiedler was then technical director of Hitler's super-secret `` Reichenberg project '' , which remained unknown to the Allies until after the war .
About 200 of the special V-1 rocket-bombs were to be made ready for manned flight with an explosive warhead .
The success of the project depended upon Fiedler's flight .
Squeezed into the few cubic feet normally filled by the rocket's automatic guidance mechanism , the scientist waited while the bomber gained altitude .
At 12,000 feet , Fiedler signaled `` release '' , and started the roaring pulse-jet engine -- then streaked away from beneath the Heinkel .
To the German pilot in the bomber the rocket became a faint black speck , hurtling through the sky at the then incredible speed of 420 m.p.h. .
It was probably man's first successful flight in a missile .
Using a steering system that controlled the modified rocket's tail surfaces and wings equipped with ailerons , Fiedler was to land the missile on a skid especially bolted under the fuselage .
He managed to maneuver the missile to a landing speed of 200 m.p.h. -- fast even for a modern jet plane touchdown -- and banked into the airfield .
Moments later the V-1 skimmed across the landing strip , edging closer and closer to a touchdown -- then in a streamer of dust it landed .
Fiedler went on to make several other test flights before German pilots took over the Reichenberg missiles .
The missiles were to be armed with an underwater bomb .
A crack corps of 50 pilots was formed from the ranks of volunteers , but the project was halted before the end of the war , and the missiles later fell into Allied hands .
Now a family man with three children , Fiedler lives in a quiet residential area near the Lockheed plant at Sunnyvale .
`` It's so quiet '' , he said , `` so slow , serene -- and so challenging '' .
John Di Massimo has been elected president of the 1961 Columbus Day Celebration Committee , it was announced yesterday .
Other officers are Angelo J. Scampini , vice president , Joseph V. Arata , treasurer , and Fred J. Casassa , secretary .
Judge John B. Molinari was named chairman of the executive committee .
Elios P. Anderlini , Attilio Beronio , Leo M. Bianco , Frederic Campagnoli , Joseph Cervetto , Armond J. De Martini , Grace Duhagon , John P. Figone , John P. Figone Jr. , Stephen Mana , John Moscone , Calude Perasso , Angelo Petrini , Frank Ratto , and George R. Reilly .
Dr. Albert Schweitzer , world-famous theologian and medical missionary , has endorsed an Easter March for Disarmament which begins tomorrow in Sunnyvale .
Members of the San Francisco American Friends Service , a Quaker organization , will march to San Francisco for a rally in Union Square at 2 p.m. Saturday .
In a letter to the American Friends Service , Dr. Schweitzer wrote :
`` Leading Nations of the West and of the East keep busy making newer nuclear weapons to defend themselves in the event the constantly threatening nuclear war should break out .
`` They cannot do otherwise than live in dread of each other since these weapons imply the possibility of such grisly surprise attack .
`` Governments apparently do not feel obligated to make the people adequately aware of this danger ; ;
A federal grand jury called 10 witnesses yesterday in an investigation of the affairs of Ben Stein , 47 , who collected big fees as a `` labor consultant '' and operator of a janitors' service .
Before he testified for 20 minutes , Stein , who lives at 3300 Lake Shore Dr. , admitted to reporters that he had a wide acquaintance with crime syndicate hoodlums .
Glimco a buddy
Another hoodlum , Louis Arger , drew $39,000 from Stein's janitor firm , the National Maintenance company , in three years ending in 1959 , Stein disclosed in an interview .
`` I put Arger on the payroll because he promised to get my firm the stevedore account at Navy pier '' , Stein said .
Connection is sought
The federal lawyers , according to their witnesses , also were tracing Stein's fees as a labor consultant .
The company supplies janitors and workmen for McCormick Place and factories , liquor firms , and other businesses .
Lee a witness
Lee said he had told the jury that he made an agreement in April with Stein to supply and supervise janitors in McCormick Place .
A $12,500 payment
Government attorneys , Leavitt said , have questioned him closely about `` five or six loans '' totaling about $40,000 which the liquor company made to Stein in the last year .
All of the loans , in amounts up to $5,000 each , have been repaid by Stein , according to Leavitt .
The deodorant firm run by Pesce has offices in the headquarters of Glimco's discredited taxi drivers' union at 1213-15 Blue Island Av. .
The radiation station of the Chicago board of health recorded a reading of 1 micro-microcurie of radiation per cubic meter of air over Chicago yesterday .
The reading , which has been watched with interest since Russia's detonation of a super bomb Monday , was 4 on Tuesday and 7 last Saturday , a level far below the danger point , according to the board of health .
The weather bureau has estimated that radioactive fallout from the test might arrive here next week .
Curtis Allen Huff , 41 , of 1630 Lake Av. , Wilmette , was arrested yesterday on a suppressed federal warrant charging him with embezzling an undetermined amount of money from the First Federal Savings and Loan association , 1 S. Dearborn St. , where he formerly was employed as an attorney .
Federal prosecutors estimated that the amount may total $20,000 , altho a spokesman for the association estimated its loss at approximately $10,000 .
Lien payments involved
Huff told Gregorio that he took the money to pay `` the ordinary bills and expenses of suburban living '' .
Huff , who received a salary of $109 a week from the loan association from October of 1955 until September of this year , said that his private practice was not lucrative .
Charge lists 3 checks
The shortage was discovered after Huff failed to report for work on Sept. 18 .
Later , Huff cashed three checks for $100 each at the Sherman House , using a credit card .
When Huff attempted to cash another $100 check there Monday , hotel officials called police .
Probably the hottest thing that has hit the Dallas investment community in years was the Morton Foods stock issue , which was sold to the public during the past week .
For many reasons , the demand to buy shares in the Dallas-headquartered company was tremendous .
Investors who wanted 100 shares in many cases ended up with 25 , and customers who had put in a bid to buy 400 shares found themselves with 100 and counted themselves lucky to get that many .
In fact , very few customers , anywhere in the nation , were able to get more than 100 shares .
A measure of how hot the stock was , can be found in what happened to it on the market as soon as trading began .
The stock was sold in the underwriting at a price of $12.50 a share .
But the Morton Foods issue was hot long before it was on the market .
Letters by the reams came in from investment firms all over the nation , all of them wanting to get a part of the shares that would be sold ( 185,000 to the public at $12.50 , with another 5,000 reserved for Morton Foods employes at $11.50 a share ) .
There was even a cable in French from a bank in Switzerland that had somehow learned about the Dallas stock offering .
After it allotted shares to 41 underwriters and 52 selling group members from coast to coast there were not many shares for anyone .
But the result of it all was , E.G.T. partner Dean Guerin believes , an effective distribution of the stock to owners all over the nation .
`` I feel confident the stock will qualify for the ' national list ' '' , he said , meaning its market price would be quoted regularly in newspapers all over the country .
He was also pleased with the wide distribution because he thought it proved again his argument that Dallas investment men can do just as good a job as the big New York investment bankers claim only they can do .
But what made the Morton Foods stock issue such a hot one ? ?
The answer is that it was a combination of circumstances .
First , the general stock market has been boiling upward for the last few months , driving stocks of all kinds up .
Second , the `` potato chip industry '' has caught the fancy of investors lately , and until Morton Foods came along there were only two potato chip stocks -- Frito and H. W. Lay -- on the market .
Both of those have had dynamic run-ups in price on the market in recent months , both were selling at higher price-earnings and yield bases than Morton was coming to market at , and everyone who knew anything about it expected the Morton stock to have a fast run-up .
And third , the potato chip industry has taken on the flavor of a `` growth '' industry in the public mind of late .
The potato chip industry these days is growing , not only as a result of population increase and public acceptance of convenience foods , but also because of a combination of circumstances that has led to growth by merger .
The history of the U.S. potato chip industry is that many of today's successful companies got started during the deep depression days .
But today many of those men are reaching retirement age and suddenly realizing that they face an estate tax problem with their closely held companies and also that they have no second-echelon management in their firms .
So they go looking for mergers with other firms that have publicly quoted stock , and almost daily they pound on the doors of firms like Frito .
All those things combined to make the Morton Foods stock the hot issue that it was and is .
Now , if Morton's newest product , a corn chip known as Chip-o's , turns out to sell as well as its stock did , the stock may turn out to be worth every cent of the prices that the avid buyers bid it up to .
More than 10 companies maintain facilities in Dallas and one large manufacturer is located to the north at Sherman .
It is no coincidence that the Texas Cotton Ginner's Association is meeting here this week for the 46th time in their 52-year history .
The exhibition of cotton ginning machinery at the State Fair grounds is valued at more than a million dollars .
A modern cotton gin plant costs in the neighborhood of $250,000 , and it's a safe assumption that a large percentage of new gins in the U.S. and foreign countries contain machinery made in this area .
The Murray Co. of Texas , Inc. , originated in Dallas in 1896 .
Murray makes a complete line of ginning equipment except for driers and cleaners , and this machinery is purchased from a Dallas-based firm .
The Continental Gin Co. began operations in Dallas in 1899 .
Headquarters is in Birmingham , Ala. .
The company sells a complete line of gin machinery all over the cotton-growing world .
Hardwicke-Etter Co. of Sherman makes a full line of gin machinery and equipment .
The company began operation in 1900 with hardware and oil mill supplies .
The Lummus Cotton Gin Co. has had a sales and service office in Dallas since 1912 .
The Moss Gordin Lint Cleaner Co. and Gordin Unit System of Ginning have joint headquarters here .
Gordin manufacturing operations are in Lubbock .
The John E. Mitchell Co. began work in Dallas in 1928 .
The increase in mechanical harvesting of cotton makes cleaning and drying equipment a must for modern gin operation .
Mitchell employs a total of about 400 people .
The Hinckley Gin Supply Co. is a maker of `` overhead equipment '' .
The firm began operations back in 1925 and sells equipment in the central cotton belt , including the Mississippi Delta .
The Cen-Tennial Gin Supply Co. has home offices and factory facilities here .
The Stacy Co. makes cleaning and drying equipment for sale largely in Texas .
Cotton Belt Gin Service , Inc. of Dallas makes gin saws and started here 14 years ago .
Cotton processing equipment is a sizable segment of Dallas business economy .
Registrations of new cars in Dallas County cracked the 3,000 mark in March for the first time this year .
Totaling 3,399 , sales jumped 14 per cent over February's 2,963 .
On a quarter-to-quarter comparison , the first quarter of 1961 total of 9,273 cars was 21 per cent behind the previous year's 3-month total of 11,744 .
This year-to-year decline for Dallas County closely follows the national trend -- estimated sales of domestic cars in the U.S. for first three months of 1961 were about 1,212,000 or 80 per cent of the total in the first quarter a year earlier .
With the March pickup , dealers are optimistic that the April-June quarter will equal or top last year .
On the local level , compacts continue to grab a larger share of the market at the expense of lower-priced standard models and foreign cars .
The top 3 students from 11 participating Dallas County high schools will be honored by the Dallas Sales Executives Club at a banquet at 6 p.m. Tuesday in the Sam Houston Room of the Sheraton-Dallas Hotel as the club winds up its annual Distributive Education project .
Now in its third year , the program is designed to provide a laboratory for those youngsters seeking careers in marketing and salesmanship .
More than 500 juniors and seniors are taking part in the program and 100 firms offer jobs on an educational rather than a need basis .
Principal address will be delivered by Gerald T. Owens , national sales manager for Isodine Pharmical Corp. of New York .
The 33 honored students are : Mike Trigg , Raymond Arrington , and Ronald Kaminsky of Bryan Adams , Janice Whitney , Fil Terral , and Carl David Page of W. H. Adamson ; ;
William Cluck , Deloris Carrel Carty , and Edna Earl Eaton of North Dallas ; ;
The Kennedy administration's new housing and urban renewal proposals , particularly their effect on the Federal Housing Administration , came under fire in Dallas last week .
The Administration's proposals , complex and sweeping as they are , all deal with fringe areas of the housing market rather than its core , stated Caron S. Stallard , first vice-president of the Mortgage Bankers Association of America .
Santa Barbara
Another speaker , William H. Draper , Jr. , former Under Secretary of the Army and now with the Palo Alto venture capital firm of Draper , Gaither & Anderson , urged the U.S. to `` throw down the gauntlet of battle to communism and tell Moscow bluntly we won't be pushed around any more '' .
' not flash in pan '
`` In view of the current expansion , which promises to be substantial '' he said the odds appear to favor rising interest rates in coming months , but `` there is reason to believe the change will not be as abrupt as in 1958 nor as severe as in late 1959 and 1960 '' .
Thesis refuted
Rather than viewing the abortive recovery in 1959-60 as a reason for believing we have lost prospects for growth '' , he said `` it should be viewed as a lesson well learned which will increase the probability of substantial improvement in this recovery '' .
Danger cited
The economist does not look for a drastic switch in the budget during this recovery and believes it `` even more unlikely that the Federal Reserve will aggressively tighten monetary policy in the early phases of the upturn as was the case in 1958 '' .
The unsatisfactory 1958-60 expansion , he said , was not due to inadequate growth forces inherent in our economy but rather to the adverse effect of inappropriate economic policies combined with retrenching decisions resulting from the steel strike .
Sacrifices needed
He said that from his experience of two years with Gen. Clay in West Berlin administration , that `` Russia respects our show of strength , but that presently we're not acting as we should and must '' .
He called the Cuban tractor plan an outright blackmail action , and noted that in war `` you can't buy yourself out and that's what we're trying to do '' .
While he declined to suggest , how , he said that sooner or later we must get rid of Castro , `` for unless we do we're liable to face similar situations in this hemisphere .
Analysts saw the move as a continuation of the recovery drive that got under way late Monday afternoon when the list sank to a hoped-for `` support level '' represented by around 675 in the Dow Jones industrial average .
Some good news
Treasury Secretary Douglas Dillon said the economy is expected to advance by a whopping 8% next year , paving the way for lower taxes .
The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 7.19 to 687.87 .
Of 1,253 issues traded , 695 advanced and 354 declined .
Trading was comparatively dull throughout the day .
A $25 billion advertising budget in an $800 billion economy was envisioned for the 1970s here Tuesday by Peter G. Peterson , head of one of the world's greatest camera firms , in a key address before the American Marketing Assn. .
However , Peterson , president of Bell & Howell , warned 800 U.S. marketing leaders attending a national conference at the Ambassador , that the future will belong to the industrialist of creative and `` unconventional wisdom '' .
Creations needed
`` With this kind of new product log-jam , the premium for brilliant product planning will obviously go up geometrically '' .
The executive paid tribute to research and development and technology for their great contributions in the past , but he also cautioned industry that they tend to be great equalizers because they move at a fairly even pace within an industry and fail to give it the short-term advantage which it often needs .
Nothing to fear
He also used as an example the manufacturer who introduced an all-automatic camera in Germany , with the result that it became the best selling camera in the German market .
Election of Howard L. Taylor to membership in Pacific Coast Stock Exchange , effective Tuesday , has been announced by Thomas P. Phelan , president of the exchange .
Taylor , president and voting stockholder of Taylor and Co. , Beverly Hills , has been active in the securities business since 1925 .
Union Oil Co. of California Tuesday offered $120 million in debentures to the public through a group of underwriters headed by Dillon , Read & Co. , to raise money to retire a similar amount held by Gulf Oil Corp. .
Gulf's holdings could have been converted into 2,700,877 shares of Union Oil common upon surrender of debentures plus cash , according to Union .
Due in 1986
The bank installed a magnetic tape electronic data processing system to handle things .
This resulted in a great number of errors .
I visited the bank in March and wrote a story about the situation .
That 60-day period is over and letters are still coming in from shareholders of these four funds , complaining about mistakes in their accounts .
Maybe it's taking longer to get things squared away than the bankers expected .
Doyle cannot undertake to reply to inquiries .
Hayes said that if a way can be found to deal effectively with short-term capital movements between nations , `` there is no reason , in my judgment why the international financial system cannot work satisfactorily for at least the foreseeable future '' .
Perlman said bankruptcy would not be an immediate effect of the merger , but could possibly be an ultimate effect .
The railroad president made the statement in an interview as the Interstate Commerce Commission opened Round 2 of its hearing into the C & O's request to control and then merge with the B & Aj .
`` All these kind of things weaken us '' , Perlman said .
Bad condition
`` The financial situation of the Baltimore & Ohio , has become precarious -- much worse than at any time since the depression of the 1930s '' , he told the hearing .
C & O president Walter J. Tuohy was summoned back for cross-examination by New York Central attorneys before examiner John Bradford who is hearing the complex case .
The New York Central also has asked the ICC to permit it to gain control of the B & Aj .
Central was rebuffed by the other two railroads in previous attempts to make it a three-way merger .
-- `` Consumer uncertain about economic conditions '' .
This was the chief reason for a so-so sales outlook given by two-thirds of 56 builders polled by the National Housing Center .
Other reasons mentioned by one-third or more of the builders were `` resistance to high interest rates , cost advantage of buying over renting has narrowed , shelter market nearing saturation and prospects unable to qualify '' .
Increase expected
Expect their own production volume , and presumably sales , to jump 30 percent in 1961 .
Look for home building nationally to advance less than 10 percent this year from 1960's 1,257,700 non-farm housing starts .
Why the discrepancy between the builders' forecasts for themselves and for the industry ? ?
Leaders of industry
Elburn , Ill.
Gus Ehlers , competitor of Mr. Houtz in this farm community , says his business since August 1 is running 50% above a year earlier .
Though the sales gains these two dealers are experiencing are above average for their business , farm equipment sales are climbing in most rural areas .
Seven of the eight companies that turn out full lines of farm machinery say sales by their dealers since the start of August have shown gains averaging nearly 10% above last year .
Two of three report gains
The significance of the pickup in farm machinery sales extends beyond the farm equipment industry .
Farmers are so eager for new machinery that they're haggling less over prices than they did a year ago , dealers report .
`` Farmers aren't as price conscious as last year so we can get more money on a sale '' , says Jack Martin , who sells J. I. Case tractors and implements in Sioux City , Iowa .
Dealers' stocks down
Tractor production at Massey-Ferguson , Ltd. , of Toronto in July and August rose to 2,418 units from 869 in the like period a year earlier , says John Staiger , vice president .
With the lower dealer inventories and the stepped-up demand some manufacturers believe there could be shortages of some implements .
Except for a few months in late 1960 and early 1961 , retail farm equipment sales have trailed year-earlier levels since the latter part of 1959 .
Nearly all of the farm equipment manufacturers and dealers say the upturn in sales has resulted chiefly from the recent improvement in crop prospects .
The Government also is aiding farmers' income prospects .
Kennedy opposes any widespread relief from a High Court depletion ruling .
The Supreme Court decision in mid-1960 was in the case of a company making sewer pipe from clay which it mined .
A measure passed by Congress just before adjourning softened the ruling's impact , on prior-year returns still under review , for clay-mining companies that make brick and tile products .
President Kennedy , in signing the relief measure into law , stressed he regarded it as an exception .
Charitable deductions come in for closer scrutiny by the I.R.S. .
The Service announced that taxpayers making such claims may be called on to furnish a statement from the recipient organization showing the date , purpose , amount and other particulars of the contribution .
In such an instance , revenuers stressed , the deduction must be reduced by the value of the benefit received .
A rule on the Federal deductibility of state taxes is contested .
A realty corporation in Louisiana owed no tax , under Federal law , on its gain from the sale of property disposed of in line with a plan of liquidation .
The Revenue Service disallowed the claim , invoking a law provision that generally bars deductions for expenses incurred in connection with what it said was tax-exempt income .
The Tax Court decision and a similar earlier finding by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals challenges a year-old I.R.S. ruling on the subject .
Peace Corps volunteers are assured a tax benefit under the law creating the agency .
The owner of a public relations firm owed no income tax on payments he received from a client company and `` kicked back '' to the company's advertising manager , the Tax Court ruled .
A portable kerosene range designed for use aboard boats is sold with a special railing to keep it from moving with the motion of the vessel .
Hiring the wife for one's company may win her tax-aided retirement income .
A spouse employed by a corporation her husband controls , for example , may be entitled to distributions under the company's pension plan as well as to her own Social Security coverage .
A frequent pitfall in this sort of arrangement , experts warn , is a tendency to pay the wife more than her job is worth and to set aside an excessive amount for her as retirement income .
Possible upshots : The company could be denied a deduction for its pension payments , or those payments for the wife and other employes could be ruled taxable to them in the year made .
State briefs : Voters in four counties containing and bordering Denver authorized the imposition of an additional 2% sales tax within that area .
The Commerce Department said seasonally adjusted sales of retail stores dropped to slightly under $18 billion in April , down 1% from the March level of more than $18.2 billion .
The seasonal adjustment takes into account such factors as Easter was on April 2 this year , two weeks earlier than in 1960 , and pre-Easter buying was pushed into March .
Commerce Department officials were inclined to explain the April sales decline as a reaction from a surge of consumer buying in March .
Greer Garson , world-famous star of stage , screen and television , will be honored for the high standard in tasteful sophisticated fashion with which she has created a high standard in her profession .
As a Neiman-Marcus award winner the titian-haired Miss Garson is a personification of the individual look so important to fashion this season .
The only woman recipient , Miss Garson will receive the award with Ferdinando Sarmi , creator of chic , beautiful women's fashions ; ;
The silver and ebony plaques will be presented at noon luncheons by Stanley Marcus , president of Neiman-Marcus , Beneficiary of the proceeds from the two showings will be the Dallas Society for Crippled Children Cerebral Palsy Treatment Center .
The attractive Greer Garson , who loves beautiful clothes and selects them as carefully as she does her professional roles , prefers timeless classical designs .
In private life , Miss Garson is Mrs. E. E. Fogelson and on the go most of the time commuting from Dallas , where they maintain an apartment , to their California home in Los Angeles' suburban Bel-Air to their ranch in Pecos , New Mexico .
Her creations in fashion are from many designers because she doesn't want a complete wardrobe from any one designer any more than she wants `` all of her pictures by one painter '' .
A favorite is Norman Norell , however .
Irene suits rate high because they are designed for her long-bodied silhouette .
Balenciaga is her favorite European designer .
`` I bought my first dress from him when I was still a struggling young actress '' , she reminisces .
Black and white is her favorite color combination along with lively glowing pinks , reds , blues and greens .
Of Scotch-Irish-Scandinavian descent , Greer Garson was born in County Down , Ireland .
Reared in England , she studied to be a teacher , earned several scholarships and was graduated with honors from the University of London .
Her acting began with the Birmingham Repertory Company and she soon became the toast of the West End .
After signing a motion-picture contract , she came to America and had `` Goodbye , Mr. Chips '' as her first assignment after a year's wait .
Honors that have come to Greer Garson are countless .
She is adept at skeet shooting , trout fishing , Afro-Cuban and Oriental dancing and Southwestern archaeology .
Back in college , today's handsome Gander was the only male member of a Texas Tech class on food .
Last October he gave a public speech in Washington , D.C. entitled `` Are Women Here To Stay '' ? ?
Ramsey , as SMU's food wrangler , buys enough groceries to serve 32,000 meals a week .
He also dishes up 3,000 snacks .
Ramsey , 6-3 , 195 and ruggedly slim , says , `` I can't remember when I didn't pester my mother to teach me to cook '' .
He was in charge of the Hockaday School meals from 1946 to 1950 , before he moved to Aj .
What does he feed his SMU football mastodons at the training table ? ?
`` Mostly meat and potatoes -- they have to have that go-go-go without getting too fat '' , says Ramsey .
What do the pretty SMU girls like on their plates ? ?
`` Pretty much hamburger , hotdogs , steak and , at night , maybe pizza '' , says the handsome food expert .
Ramsey has stoked up Harry Truman , Henry Cabot Lodge , the King of Morocco , Clement Atlee and other shiny characters .
`` They aren't supposed to look at women , you know '' , Ramsey recalled .
Chicken Cadillac
Add enough warmed cream , seasoned to taste with onion juice , to about half cover the chicken breasts .
While this is baking , saute mushrooms , fresh or canned , in butter .
( Leave off the ham and you call it Chicken Pontiac , says Ramsey .
Contemporary furniture that is neither Danish nor straight-line modern but has sculptured pattern , many design facets , warmth , dignity and an effect of utter comfort and livability .
That is the goal of two new collections being introduced in Dallas this month .
Though there has been some avant garde indication that contemporary furniture might go back to the boxy look of the '20's and '40's , two manufacturers chose to take the approach of the sophisticated , but warm look in contemporary .
The Heritage collection , to be shown by Sanger-Harris and Anderson's Studio , has perhaps more different types of woods and decorations than any one manufacturer ever assembled together at one time .
Walnut , wormy chestnut , pecan , three varieties of burl , hand-woven Philippine cane , ceramic tiles , marble are used to emphasize the feeling of texture and of permanence , the furniture to fit into rooms with tiled floors , brick or paneled walls , windows that bring in the outdoors .
The Drexel collection , called Composite , to be shown by Titche's offers a realistic approach to decorating , a mature modern that is a variation of many designs .
Rounded posts give a soft , sculptured look , paneled doors have decorative burl panels or cane insets plus softening arches , table tops are inlaid in Macassar ebony or acacia .
An interesting approach to the bedroom is presented , with a young , basic , functional group of chests , dressers and corner units and a canted headboard .
Colorful , bright Eastman Chromspun fabrics , with the magenta , pink and white tones predominating as well as golden shades are used with Composite .
Design elements closely rooted to traditional forms but wearing a definite contemporary label keynote Drexel's fall 1961 group , Composite .
Dignity and comfort , in a contemporary manner , reflecting the best aspects of today's design , with substance and maturity , keynote the Perennian collection from Heritage .
The Vagabonds are `` on the road '' again .
This coming weekend they have reserved the entire Stagecoach Inn and adjoining country club , Saledo , for festivities .
Stagecoach Days is the theme for the weekend on the Old Chisholm Trail .
The get-together Friday night will be a banquet at the country club patio and pool , and an orchestra will play for dancing .
Guests will wear costumes typical of the Chisholm Trail Days .
Decorating the ballroom will be the yellow rose of Texas , in tall bushes ; ;
Mr. and Mrs. Phil G. Abell are chairmen for the Saledo trip .
The travel club is comprised of 75 fun-loving couples who have as their motto `` Go Somewhere , Anywhere , Everywhere '' .
In the past , the men and women have chartered planes to Las Vegas and Jamaica , buses to Mineral Wells and Kerrville and private railway coaches to Shreveport and Galveston .
Four parties are given a year .
Serving on the club's board are Mmes R. P. Anderson , president ; ;
A cookie with caramel filling and chocolate frosting won $25,000 for a Minneapolis housewife in the 13th annual Pillsbury Bake-Off Tuesday .
Mrs. Alice H. Reese , wife of an engineer and mother of a 23-year-old son , was awarded the top prize at a luncheon in the Beverly Hilton Hotel .
Second grand prize of $5,000 went to Mrs. Clara L. Oliver for her Hawaiian coffee ring , a rich yeast bread with coconut filling and vanilla glaze .
Mother of five
Mrs. Reese baked her cookies for only the third time in the Bake-off finals .
She dreamed up the cookie recipe , tried it , liked it and entered it in the contest .
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph R. Bolker will give a dinner on Friday at their home in Beverly Hills to honor Mrs. Norman Chandler , chairman of the Music Center Building Fund Committee , and Mr. Chandler .
Mr. Bolker heads a group within the building and development industry to raise funds in support of this cultural center for the performing arts .
A feature of the party will be a presentation by Welton Becket , center architect , of color slides and renderings of the three-building complex .
Foliage will glow at formal fall party
Among those with reservations are Messrs. and Mmes. William A. Thompson , Van Cott Niven , A. B. Cox , David Bricker , Samuel Perry and Robert D. Stetson .
Others are Drs. and Mmes. Alfred Robbins , and J. Lafe Ludwig and Gen. and Mrs. Leroy Watson .
Guests from across U.S. honor Dr. Swim
A flight originating in Florida picked up guests on the East Coast and Midwest and a plane left from Seattle taking on passengers at West Coast points .
Cocktails and a buffet supper were served to more than 100 persons who had known Dr. Swim when he practiced in Los Angeles .
Giving up the violin opened a whole new career for Ilona Schmidl-Seeberg , a tiny Hungarian who Fritz Kreisler had predicted would have a promising career on the concert stage .
A heart attack when she was barely 20 put an end to the 10-hour daily practicing .
Now her modern tapestries have been exhibited on two continents and , at 26 , she feels she is on the threshold of a whole new life in Los Angeles .
Her days as an art student at the University of Budapest came to a sudden end during the Hungarian uprisings in 1957 and she and her husband Stephen fled to Vienna .
There they continued their studies at the university , she in art , he in architecture .
There's a lot of talk about the problem of education in America today .
I never dreamed of the logistical difficulties involved until , at long last , both of my boys got squeezed into high school .
Getting to and from school was no problem .
Now they go to a high school that is two miles away .
It's much more complex than that .
This is a way of getting to school , but , I understand , it entails a certain loss of social status .
`` Why don't you walk to school then '' ? ?
`` Did you '' ? ?
`` No '' , I said , `` I didn't happen to grow up in Illinois '' .
I explained , however , that I had my share of hardship in making my daily pilgrimage to the feet of wisdom .
I had to ride a streetcar two miles .
I've tried to compromise by letting them take the little car now and then .
Even that isn't satisfactory .
The logic of that is impeccable , of course , except that I feel like a fool being driven up to work in a little car , by my wife , when everybody knows I have a big car and am capable of driving myself .
The solution , naturally , is the bus .
My wife could drive us down the hill and we could all walk from there .
Nobody walks anymore but crackpots and Harry Truman , and he's already got an education .
Advance publicity on the Los Angeles Blue Book does not mention names dropped as did the notices for the New York Social Register which made news last week .
Published annually by William Hord Richardson , the 1962 edition , subtitled Society Register of Southern California , is scheduled to arrive with Monday morning's postman .
Publisher Richardson has updated the Blue Book `` but it still remains the compact reference book used by so many for those ever-changing telephone numbers , addresses , other residences , club affiliations and marriages '' .
Stars for marriage
Others are Carla Ruth Craig to Dan McFarland Chandler Jr. ; ;
Also noted are the marriages of Elizabeth Browning , daughter of the George L. Brownings , to Austin C. Smith Jr. ; ;
Pasadena listings
Changes in address are noted .
For instance , the Edwin Pauleys Jr. , formerly of Chantilly Rd. , are now at home on North Arden Dr. in Beverly Hills .
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Moulton now live on Wilshire and the Franklin Moultons on S. Windsor Blvd. .
More new addresses
Others listed at new addresses are the Richard T. Olerichs , the Joseph Aderholds Jr. , the Henri De La Chapelles , the John Berteros and Dr. and Mrs. Egerton Crispin , the John Armisteads , the Allen Chases , the Howard Lockies , the Thomas Lockies , and Anthony Longinotti .
Newcomers of social note from other parts of the country are the Ray Carbones , formerly of Panama ; ;
Here's an idea for a child's room that is easy to execute and is completely charming , using puppets for lamp bases .
To create such a lamp , order a wired pedestal from any lamp shop .
Pulling strings
Although a straight drum shade would be adequate and sufficiently neutral that the puppets could be changed without disharmony , it is far more fun to create shades in the gay spirit of a child's playtime .
Today's trend toward furniture designs from America's past is teaching home-owners and decorators a renewed respect for the shrewd cabinetmakers of our Colonial era .
A generation ago there were plenty of people who appreciated antiques and fine reproductions .
This isn't true of the many homemakers of the 1960's , according to decorator consultant , Leland Alden .
Housewives are finding literally hundreds of ways of getting the maximum use out of traditional designs , says Mr. Alden and they are doing it largely because Colonial craftsmen had `` an innate sense of the practical '' .
Solid investment
Hotel Escape's Bonanza room has a real bonanza in its new attraction , the versatile `` Kings 4 , Plus Two '' .
This is the strongest act to hit the area in a long while -- a well integrated , fast moving outfit specializing in skits , vocals , comedy and instrumentals all of it distinctly displaying the pro touch .
Show spotlights the Kings -- George Worth , Bill Kay , Frank Ciciulla and Gene Wilson , flanked by Dave Grossman and Ron Stevens .
The Plus Two remain at a fixed position with drums and guitar but the quartet covers the stage with a batch of instruments ranging from tuba to tambourine , and the beat is solid .
In the comedy division , the Kings simply augment talent and imagination with a few props .
Kings 4 , have rated as a popular act in Vegas and Western nightclubs .
elsewhere
Johnny Leighton picked up some new numbers out in Texas which he's springing on the ringsiders in the Rum House at Galt Ocean Mile Hotel .
`` Skip '' Hovarter back in town from a summer in the Reno-Lake Tahoe area where he ran into Rusty Warren , Kay Martin , the Marskmen and Tune Toppers -- all pulling good biz , he says .
We like Fike
Al has added some sidemen to the act which makes for a smoother operation but it's substantially the same format heard last spring .
Newcomers are Ernie Kemm on piano , Wes Robbins , bass and trumpet , and Jack Kelly on drums .
Maestro's biggest stock in trade is his personality , and ability to establish a warm rapport with his audience .
This is a bouncy show which may get a little too frantic at times , but is nevertheless worth your appraisal .
New owners
Spot retains the same decor although crystal chandeliers have been installed above the terrace dining area , and the kitchen has undergone a remodeling job .
Latter domain , under the guidance of Chef Tom Yokel , will specialize in steaks , chops , chicken and prime beef as well as Tom's favorite dish , stuffed shrimp .
Bandstand features Hal DeCicco , pianist , for both dinner hour and the late trade .
Here and there
Louise Franklin cornering the gift shop market in Lauderdale .
Sunday New Orleans brunches continue at the Trade Winds but the daily French buffets have been called off .
Mackey Airline's new Sunshine Inn at Bimini set to open some time this month , according to Hank Johnson .
Student Prince Lounge on Atlantic Blvd. plotting a month-long `` festival '' throughout October , with special features .
Don Drinkhouse of Pal's Restaurant planning a reunion with the Miami Playboy Club's pianist , Julian Gould .
Steak House has such a run on beer to wash down that Mexican food `` Tex '' Burgess had to call the draft man twice in one day .
faces in places
Murphy honors
Miss Murphy was born in Placentia , Newfoundland .
`` Le Theatre D'Art Du Ballet '' , of Monte Carlo , will present a program of four ballets including `` Francesca Da Rimini '' .
The series of ballets is sponsored by the Milenoff Ballet Foundation , Inc. , a non-profit foundation with headquarters in Coral Gables .
Also set for appearances at the auditorium this season are : `` American Ballet Theatre '' on Jan. 27 , `` Ximenez-Vargas Ballet Espagnol '' on Feb. 2 ; ;
The workshop will begin at 10 a.m. and end at 3 p.m. in the auditorium of the Library and Fine Arts Building .
Anyone interested in attending the meeting may have reservations with Mrs. John Whelan at the Hollywood Public Library .
At the workshop , Mrs. Schenk will discuss `` the board and the staff , librarian-board relationships , personnel policies , how good is our librarian and staff , how good am I as a library board member and how good is our library '' .
Other workshops will be in Tallahassee Oct. 5 ; ;
Subsequent assemblies will be held at Stranahan High School Tuesday , at Pompano Beach High Wednesday , and at Fort Lauderdale high Thursday .
The business education program operates with the cooperation of local high schools and business firms .
Is there anything a frustrated individual can do about Communism's growing threat on our doorstep and around the world ? ?
More than 300 teenagers last Sunday proved there is and as many more are expected to prove it again for Jim Kern and his wife Lynn from 4 to 8 p.m. Sunday at First Presbyterian Church .
At that time the second half of the Christian Youth Crusade against Communism will be staged .
Kern began reading a lot about the history and philosophy of Communism , but never felt there was anything he , as an individual , could do about it .
When he attended the Christian Anti-Communist Crusade school here about six months ago , Jim became convinced that an individual can do something constructive in the ideological battle and set out to do it .
The best approach , he figured , was to try to influence young people like the high schoolers he and his wife serve as advisors at First Presbyterian Church .
And he wanted to be careful that the kids not only learn about Communist but also about what he feels is the only antidote -- a Biblically strong Christianity .
So the Christian Youth Crusade against Communisn developed and more than 300 top teenagers and 65 adult advisers from Presbyterian churches of the area sat enthralled at the four-hour program .
This Sunday those attending the second session will hear a lecture by Kern on the world situation ; ;
The second half of the film `` Communism on the Map '' and the movie `` Operation Abolition '' also will be shown .
Response to the program has been so encouraging , Kern said , that a city-wide youth school at Dade County Auditorium may be set up soon .
And to encourage other churches to try their own programs , Kern said this Sunday's sessions -- including the free dinner -- will be open to anyone who makes reservations .
The need for and the way to achieve a Christian home will be stressed in special services marking National Christian Family Week in Miami area churches next week .
Of particular meaning to the Charles MacWhorter family , 3181 SW 24th Ter. , will be the Family Dedication Service planned for 10:50 a.m. Sunday at First Christian Church .
It will be the second time the assistant manager of a Coral Gables restaurant and his wife have taken part in the twice-a-year ceremonies for families with new babies .
The first one , two years ago , changed the routine of their home life .
`` When you stand up in public and take vows to strive to set an example before your children and to teach them the fundamentals of the Christian faith , you strive a little harder to uphold those vows '' , explains the slender vice president of the young couples Sunday school class .
Until that first dedication service , he and Lois felt their children were too young to take part in any religious life at home .
But after that service , they decided to try to let the girls say grace at the table , have bedtime prayers , and Bible stories .
Dade's chief probation officer , Jack Blanton , will lead a discussion on `` The Changes in the American Family '' at 7:30 p.m. Sunday at Christ Lutheran Church .
Mr. and Mrs. George Treadwell will be honored at a Family Week supper and program at 6 p.m. Sunday at Trinity Methodist Church .
A family worship service will follow the program at 7:45 p.m. .
The outstanding family of Central Nazarene Church will be picked by ballot from among eight families during the 10:45 a.m. Sunday service marking National Family Week .
Every family of Riviera Presbyterian Church has been asked to read the Bible and pray together daily during National Christian Family Week and to undertake one project in which all members of the family participate .
To start the week of special programs at the church , the Rev. John D. Henderson will preach on `` A Successful Marriage '' at 9:40 and 11 a.m. Sunday .
A father and son dinner sponsored by the Men's Club will be held at 6:15 p.m. Monday and the annual church picnic at 4 p.m. next Saturday .
The week will end with the Rev. Mr. Henderson preaching on `` The Marriage Altar '' at 7:30 p.m. Sunday , May 14 .
The resignation of the Rev. Warren I. Densmore , headmaster of St. Stephen's Episcopal Day School in Coconut Grove , becomes effective July 15 .
Enrique Jorda , conductor and musical director of the San Francisco Symphony , will fulfill two more guest conducting engagements in Europe before returning home to open the symphony's Golden Anniversary season , it was announced .
The guest assignments are scheduled for November 14 and 18 , with the Orchestra Sinfonica Siciliana in Palermo and the Orchestra of Radio Cologne .
During his five-month visit abroad , Jorda recently conducted the Orchestre Philharmonique De Bordeau in France , and the Santa Cecilia Orchestra in Rome .
In announcing Jorda's return , the orchestra also announced that the sale of single tickets for the 50th anniversary season will start at the Sherman Clay box office on Wednesday .
Guest performers and conductors during the coming season will include many renowned artists who began their careers playing with the orchestra , including violinists Yehudi Menuhin , Isaac Stern , Ruggiero Ricci and David Abel ; ;
The Leningrad Kirov Ballet , which opened a series of performances Friday night at the Opera House , is , I think , the finest `` classical '' ballet company I have ever seen , and the production of the Petipa-Tschaikowsky `` Sleeping Beauty '' with which it began the series is incomparably the finest I have ever had the pleasure of witnessing .
This work is no favorite of mine .
Precise
These qualities alone , however , would not account for their success , and it took me a while to discover the crowning virtue that completes this company's collective personality .
Irina Kolpakova , the Princess Aurora of Friday's performance , would be a change for the better anywhere , at any time , no matter who had had the role before .
Hit
The production , designed by Simon Virsaladze , was completely traditional but traditional in the right way .
Evegeni Dubovskoi conducted an exceptionally large orchestra , one containing excellent soloists -- the violin solos by the concertmaster , Guy Lumia , were especially fine -- but one in which the core of traveling players and the body of men added locally had not had time to achieve much unity .
Mail orders are now being received for the series of concerts to be given this season under the auspices of the San Francisco Chamber Music Society .
The season will open at the new Hall of Flowers in Golden Gate Park on November 20 at 8:30 p.m. with a concert by the Mills Chamber Players .
Sustaining members may sign up at $25 for the ten-concert season ; ;
Mail orders for the season and orders for single tickets at $2 , may be addressed to the society , 1044 Chestnut Street , San Francisco 9 .
San Francisco firemen busied themselves last week with their annual voluntary task of fixing up toys for distribution to needy children .
Fire Fighters Local 798 , which is sponsoring the toy program for the 12th straight year , issued a call for San Franciscans to turn in discarded toys , which will be repaired by off-duty firemen .
Toys will not be collected at firehouses this year .
From the collection centers , toys will be taken to a warehouse at 198 Second street , where they will be repaired and made ready for distribution .
Any needy family living in San Francisco can obtain toys by writing to Christmas Toys , 676 Howard street , San Francisco 5 , and listing the parent's name and address and the age and sex of each child in the family between the ages of 1 and 12 .
For A good many seasons I've been looking at the naughty stuff on television , so the other night I thought I ought to see how immorality is doing on the other side of the fence in movies .
So I went to see `` La Dolce Vita '' .
It has been billed as a towering monument to immorality .
After television , `` La Dolce Vita '' seems as harmless as a Gray Line tour of North Beach at night .
I believe TV watchers will be bored .
`` La Dolce Vita '' has none of the senseless brutality or sadism of the average TV Western .
In another respect , television viewers will feel right at home because most of the actors are unknowns .
Most of the emphasis has been placed on a `` wild party '' at a seaside villa .
Put them all together and they spell out the only four-letter word I can think of : dull .
Apparently Fellini caught the crowd when its parties had begun to pall .
As A moral shocker it is a dud .
`` This is a long picture and a controversial one , but basically it is a moral , enthralling and heartbreaking description of humans who have become unlinked from life as perhaps Rome has from her traditional political , cultural and religious glories '' .
And when they sell it to television in a couple of years , it can be shown without editing .
Tonight Atlantic Monthly editor Edward Weeks moderates a round table of four Russian writers in a discussion of Soviet literature .
NBC plans a new series of three long programs exploring America's scientific plans titled `` Threshold '' , to start in the fall .
The week went along briskly enough .
It is very chic to drive foreign cars .
The wardrobe for a foreign bomb is a little expensive .
`` Where do you put the lighter fluid , ha , ha '' ? ?
Gas station people are very debonair about small cars .
When I drove a car with tail fins , I had plenty status at the wind-and-water oases .
This excellent foreign bomb takes only six .
When I had my big job with the double headlights and yards of chrome , the gas people were happy to see me .
`` Tires OK ? ?
They polished the windshield .
The man stuck the nozzle in the gas tank .
`` It is a British Austin , the smallest they make '' .
`` Get much mileage '' ? ?
`` About 35 '' .
The gas station man sighed unhappily .
`` What I always say is what if somebody clobbers you in a little car like that ? ?
`` I will die rich '' .
`` That will be $1.80 '' , said the gas station man .
Ah , the fair-weather friends of yesteryear ! !
With a small bomb , I tuck it between Cadillacs .
At last the White House is going to get some much-copied furniture by that master American craftsman , Duncan Phyfe , whose designs were snubbed in his lifetime when the U. S. Presidents of the 19th Century sent abroad for their furnishings .
The American Institute of Decorators has acquired a rare complete set of sofas and chairs which are to be placed in the Executive Mansion's library .
Authenticated pieces of Duncan Phyfe furniture are uncommon , although millions of American homes today display pieces patterned after the style trends he set 150 years ago .
The AID has undertaken the redecoration of the White House library as a project in connection with the work being done by First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy's Fine Arts Advisory Committee to secure antiques for the presidential home .
The room will also feature another rarity many antiquarians would consider more important than the Duncan Phyfe furniture .
The mantel was found in a recently demolished Salem house and is being fitted over the White House library fireplace .
The AID committee's chairman in charge of the redecoration , Mrs. Henry Francis Lenygon , was in town yesterday to consult with White House staff members on the project .
President Kennedy couldn't stay away from his desk for the 75-minute young people's concert played on the White House lawn yesterday by the 85-piece Transylvania Symphony Orchestra from Brevard , N. C. .
At 4 p.m. the President left the White House to welcome the young musicians , students from the ages of 12 to 18 who spend six weeks at the Brevard Music Center summer camp , and to greet the 325 crippled , cardiac and blind children from the District area who were special guests at the concert .
It was the first in the series of `` Concerts for Young People by Young People '' to be sponsored by First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy at the White House .
She is vacationing at the Kennedy summer home in Hyannis Port , Mass. , and in his welcoming remarks , the President said he was representing her .
As he approached the open bandstand , erected facing the South entrance to the Executive Mansion , the band struck up the `` Star Spangled Banner '' and followed it with `` Hail To The Chief '' .
`` I think they played Hail To The Chief better than the Marine Corps Band , and we are grateful to them '' , President Kennedy remarked after mounting the bandstand and shaking hands with conductor James Christian Pfohl .
After paying tribute to the conductor and his white-clad youthful students , President Kennedy said , `` As an American I have the greatest possible pride in the work that is being done in dozens of schools stretching across the United States -- schools where devoted teachers are studying with interested young men and women and opening up the whole wide horizon of serious music '' .
He added `` I think that sometimes in this country we are not aware as we should be of the extraordinary work that is being done in this field '' .
Displaying his knowledge of music , the New England-born President remarked that `` probably the best chamber music in the world is played in Vermont , by young Americans -- and here in this school where they have produced extraordinary musicians and teachers , and their work is being duplicated all across the United States .
`` This is a great national cultural asset , and therefore it is a great source of satisfaction to me , representing as I do today my wife , to welcome all of you here today at the White House '' .
As he left the bandstand to return to his office , the slender , sun-tanned Chief Executive paused along the way to shake hands with the members of the audience in wheel chairs forming the first row under the field tent set up for the guests .
He expressed surprise to learn that pretty , blonde Patricia Holbrook , 16 , of Mount Rainier , had attended the Joseph P. Kennedy School for the Handicapped in Boston .
Each of the children invited to the concert wore a name tag marked with a red , white and blue ribbon .
Many of the music-loving members of the President's staff gathered around the tent listening and watching the rapt attention given by the young seated audience .
Transylvania Symphony Conductor Pfohl said yesterday that Mrs. Kennedy's Social Secretary , Letitia Baldrige , told about plans for White House youth concerts before the National Symphony Orchestra League in Philadelphia last spring .
He said he contacted a friend , Henry Hall Wilson , on the President's staff and asked whether his orchestra could play , in the series .
One of the most interested `` students '' on the tour which the Brevard group took at the National Gallery yesterday following their concert at the White House , was Letitia Baldrige , social secretary to First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy .
`` I was an art major in college '' , Miss Baldrige explained .
Miss Bouton headed up one of the four groups that went on simultaneous tours after the Gallery had closed at 5 p.m. .
The Brevard visitors had very little to say at the beginning of the tour but warmed up later .
Gallery Director John Walker greeted the group , standing on one of the benches in the downstairs lobby to speak to them .
Along with the gallery aide who explained the various paintings and sculptures to each group , went one of the Gallery's blue-uniformed guards .
In 45 minutes , the Gallery leaders had given the students a quick rundown on art from the Renaissance to the late 19th Century .
A few of them said they `` preferred contemporary art '' .
Among the other artists , whose paintings were discussed were Boucher , Courbet , Fra Angelico .
The thing that impressed one of the visitors the most was the Gallery's rotunda fountain `` because it's on the second floor '' .
That imposing , somewhat austere , and seemingly remote collonaded building with the sphynxes perched on its threshold at 1733 16th St. nw. took on bustling life yesterday .
More than 250 Scottish Rite Masons and guests gathered in their House of the Temple to pay tribute to their most prominent leader , Albert Pike , who headed the Scottish Rite from 1859 to 1891 .
They came together in the huge , high-ceilinged Council Chamber to hear the late leader eulogized .
The ceremony ended with the laying of a wreath at the crypt of Pike in the House of the Temple .
About 1500 delegates are expected to register today for the biennial session of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite for the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States .
The opening session of the 5-day session will begin at 10 a.m. today .
The marriage of John and Mary Black had clearly reached the breaking point after eight years .
John had a job in a small firm where the work was dull and monotonous .
Hurt by his lack of interest and attention , Mary complained often that he didn't help around the house , and that he didn't really care about the family .
Mary decided she had had enough .
Family Service , sharing in UGF , has five agencies in the Washington area .
Because neither of them really wanted their marriage to break up , Mr. and Mrs. Black agreed to a series of interviews at Family Service of Northern Virginia , the agency nearest them .
John received a promotion in his firm .
To outsiders , the Blacks seem to be an ordinary , happy family , and they are -- but with a difference .
Family Service has helped hundreds of families in this area .
Anticipated heavy traffic along the Skyline Drive failed to materialize yesterday , park rangers said , and those who made the trip got a leisurely view of the fall colors through skies swept clear of haze .
For crucial encounter
`` I'm hopeful that from more traditional exchanges we can perhaps find greater common ground '' .
The President knew that a confrontation with Mr. Khrushchev sooner or later probably was inevitable and even desirable .
Last Friday the White House announced :
President Kennedy will meet with Soviet Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev in Vienna June 3 and 4 .
The announcement came after a period of sharp deterioration in East-West relations .
That objective set the high stakes and drama of the Vienna meeting .
Road to Vienna
The first time was in 1955 when a full-dress Big Four summit meeting produced the `` spirit of Geneva '' .
In 1959 President Eisenhower and Premier Khrushchev held an informal session in the U. S. .
On the third occasion -- another Big Four summit session at Paris a year ago -- there was no problem of an illusory `` spirit '' .
Pre-inaugural position
`` As long as Mr. Khrushchev is convinced that the balance of world power is shifting his way , no amount of either smiles or toughness , neither Camp David talks nor kitchen debates , can compel him to enter fruitful negotiations '' .
The President had set for himself the task , which he believed vital , of awakening the U. S. and its allies to the hard and complex effort necessary to shift that balance .
Attitude flexible
Both elements -- the caution about a meeting , the willingness eventually to hold one -- were reflected in a letter from the President which Ambassador Llewellyn E. Thompson brought back to Russia late in February .
Developments over the next two months , however , caused the President to reconsider the question of the timing .
Deadlock on tests
Mr. Kennedy was less troubled by that possibility than by the belief that a Geneva breakdown , or even continued stalemate , would mean an unchecked spread of nuclear weapons to other countries as well as a fatal blow to any hope for disarmament .
Developments in Cuba and Laos also suggested the advisability of an early summit meeting .
In Cuba , the U. S. had blundered badly and created the impression of impotency against Communist penetration even on its own doorstep .
In the light of those events , there appeared to be a real danger that Premier Khrushchev might overreach himself .
It was in the midst of such White House deliberations that Premier Khrushchev on May 4 made new inquiries through the U. S. Embassy in Moscow about a meeting with the President in the near future .
`` The President and Chairman Khrushchev understand that this meeting is not for the purpose of negotiating or reaching agreement on the major international problems that involve the interest of many other countries .
The outlook
The approval did not arise from an expectation of far-reaching agreements at Vienna .
Apart from the personal equation , another reason advanced in favor of the meeting was that too often in the past the U.S. appeared to have been dragged reluctantly to the summit .
Other allies consulted
Finally , there was a wide area of agreement on the value of the President's making a final effort in the summit spotlight for a nuclear test accord .
Disapproval of the meeting was based largely on the belief that the timing could hardly be worse .
There are , so my biologist friends tell me , mechanisms of adaptation and defense that are just too complete and too satisfactory .
There can be no doubt that the American Catholic accomplishment in the field of higher education is most impressive : our European brethren never cease to marvel at the number and the size of our colleges and universities .
There is , however , one curious discrepancy in this broad and flattering picture .
Official encouragement is one thing , but the down-to-earth test is the allocation of diocesan and parochial funds .
All of this may be understandable enough : it is , however , in fact difficult to see how diocesan authorities could have acted otherwise .
To understand the past history -- and the future potential -- of American Catholic higher education , it is necessary to appreciate the special character of the esprit de corps of the religious community .
American Catholic colleges and universities are , in a very real sense , the product of `` private enterprise '' -- the `` private enterprise '' of religious communities .
It is this spirit which explains some of the anomalies of American Catholic higher education , in particular the wasteful duplication apparent in some areas .
Apart , however , from the question of wasteful duplication , there is another aspect of the `` family business '' spirit in American Catholic higher education which deserves closer scrutiny .
The problem is not merely that more `` outside teachers '' are needed but that a different brand is called for .
In the above mentioned report of the Notre Dame Chapter of the American Association of University Professors , the basic outlook of the new breed of lay faculty emerges very clearly in the very statement of the problem as the members see it : `` Even with the best of intentions he ( the President of the university ) is loath to delegate such authority and responsibility to a group the membership of which , considered ( as it must be by him ) in individual terms , is inhomogeneous , mortal and of extremely varying temperament , interests and capabilities .
The pattern here pictured is clearly not peculiar to Notre Dame : it is simply that the paradox involved in this kind of control of the institution by `` the organization which actually owns '' it , becomes more obvious where there is a larger and more distinguished `` outside '' faculty .
There are two reasons why failure to come to grips with this demand could be fatal to the future of the Catholic university .
To appreciate the nature of the gamble , it should be realized that while college teaching is almost a public symbol of security , that security does not come as quickly or as automatically as it does in an elementary school system or in the Civil Service .
Just as it is possible to exaggerate the drawing power of the new tenure practices , it is also possible to exaggerate the significance of the now relatively adequate salaries paid by major Catholic institutions .
There is no need here to spell out the conditions of creative teaching except to point out that , at the college level , the sense of community and of community responsibility is even more necessary than it is at other levels .
The second reason for being concerned with the dichotomy between faculty members who are part of the `` in-group '' that owns and operates the institution and those who are merely paid employees , is , therefore , the baneful effect on the caliber of the teaching itself .
The first is a negative warning : there is no point in the creation of faculty committees and advisory boards with high-sounding titles but no real authority .
In any case it is by no means clear that formally structured organs of participation are what is called for at all .
Sen. John L. McClellan of Arkansas and Rep. David Martin of Nebraska are again beating the drums to place the unions under the anti-monopoly laws .
The public atmosphere that has been generated which makes acceptance of this law a possibility stems from the disrepute into which the labor movement has fallen as a result of Mr. McClellan's hearings into corruption in labor-management relations and , later , into the jurisdictional squabbles that plagued industrial relations at the missile sites .
It is now disclosed that the taxpayer not only pays for high wages , but he pays the employers' strike expenses when the latter undertakes to fight a strike .
Rep. Frank Kowalski of Connecticut has brought this problem to the attention of the Armed Services Committee .
The recent publicity attending the successful federal prosecution of a conspiracy indictment against a number of electrical manufacturers has evoked a new respect for the anti-trust laws that is justified neither by their rationale nor by the results they have obtained .
Let us look at the heavy-electrical-goods industry in which General Electric , Westinghouse and a number of other manufacturers were recently convicted of engaging in a conspiracy to rig prices and allocate the market .
The problem becomes even more complex where an enterprise is engaged in the manufacture of a wide variety of other goods in addition to the heavy electrical equipment .
Under the circumstances , the only protection for the relatively small manufacturers is to engage in exactly the kind of conspiracy with the giants for which the latter were convicted .
The question might be asked : `` Don't the managements of the heavy-electrical-goods manufacturers know these facts ? ?
The past usefulness of the anti-trust laws to management was explained by Thurman Arnold , in The Folklore of Capitalism , back in 1937 .
This escape from control has led to management's evaluating the risk of occasional irrational prosecution as worth while .
If a substitute mechanism is needed for the control of a fictitious impersonal market , quite obviously some method must be devised for representing the public interest .
Those who favor placing trade unions under anti-trust laws imply that they are advocating a brand new reform .
Before 1933 , individuals who opposed trade unions and collective bargaining said so in plain English .
The basic purpose of an effective collective-bargaining system is the removal of wages from competition .
The tortured reasoning that unions use to deny their ambition to exercise monopoly power over the supply and price of labor is one of the things that create a legal profession .
Human labor was exactly that -- a commodity -- in eighteenth- and nineteenth-century America .
There were no pious hypocrisies then about being for collective bargaining , but against labor monopoly .
`` Without any officious and improper interference on the subject , the price of labor or the wages of mechanics will be regulated by the demand for the manufactured article and the value of that which is paid for it ; ;
Compare this statement of a nineteenth-century judge with how Congressman Martin , according to the Daily Labor Report of Sept. 19 , 1961 , defends the necessity of enacting anti-trust legislation in the field of labor `` if we wish to prevent monopolistic fixing of wages , production or prices and if we wish to preserve the freedom of the employer and his employees to contract on wages , hours and conditions of employment '' .
Senator McClellan is proposing the application of anti-trust measures to unions in transportation .
Paradoxically , the same week in which Senator McClellan was attempting to extend the anti-trust act to labor in transportation , the Civil Aeronautics Board was assuring the airlines that if they met in concert to eliminate many costly features of air travel , the action would not be deemed a violation of the anti-trust act .
The passage of the Sherman Act was aimed at giant monopolies .
In 1914 , the Clayton Act attempted to take labor out from under the anti-trust legislation by stating that human labor was not to be considered a commodity .
The courts , by interpretation , emasculated the act .
The nation
Hours after a parade of his new Soviet tanks and artillery , Dictator Fidel Castro suddenly confronted the U.S. with a blunt and drastic demand : within 48 hours , the U.S. had to reduce its embassy and consulate staffs in Cuba to a total of eleven persons ( the embassy staff alone totaled 87 U.S. citizens , plus 120 Cuban employees ) .
Through Secretary Herter , Ike offered President-elect Kennedy an opportunity to associate his new Administration with the breakoff decision .
After a White House huddle between the President and top lieutenants , the Defense Department reacted sharply to a cry from the pro-Western government of Laos that several battalions of Communist troops had invaded Laos from North Viet Nam .
But by week's end the Laotian cry of invasion was read as an exaggeration ( see foreign news ) , and the U.S. was agreeing with its cautious British and French allies that a neutralist -- rather than a pro-Western -- government might be best for Laos .
There was a moral of sorts in the Laotian situation that said much about all other cold-war fronts .
At Geneva in 1954 , to get the war in Indo-China settled , the British and French gave in to Russian and Communist Chinese demands and agreed to the setting up of a Communist state , North Viet Nam -- which then , predictably , became a base for Communist operations against neighboring South Viet Nam and Laos .
Russian tanks and artillery parading through the streets of Havana , Russian intrigue in the Congo , and Russian arms drops in Laos ( using the same Ilyushin transports that were used to carry Communist agents to the Congo ) made it plain once more that the cold war was all of a piece in space and time .
The Congress
There were two possible methods of breaching the conservative barriers around the Rules Committee : 1 ) to pack it with additional liberals and break the conservative-liberal deadlock , or 2 ) to remove one of the conservatives -- namely Mississippi's 14-term William Meyers Colmer ( pronounced Calmer ) .
A dour , gangling man with a choppy gait , Colmer looks younger than his 70 years , has gradually swung from a moderate , internationalist position to that of a diehard conservative .
There was sufficient pretext to demand Colmer's ouster : he had given his lukewarm support to the anti-Kennedy electors in Mississippi .
In a tense , closed-door session with Judge Smith , Rayburn attempted to work out a compromise : to add three new members to the Rules Committee ( two Democrats , including one Southerner , and one Republican ) .
News of Rayburn's commitment soon leaked out .
As the battle raged in the cloakrooms and caucuses , it became clear that Judge Smith could lose .
But in the prospect of winning the battle loomed the specter of losing a costlier war .
A wide-ranging , bipartisan force -- from Minnesota's Democratic Hubert Humphrey to Massachusetts' Republican Leverett Saltonstall -- was drawn up against a solid phalanx of Southern Democrats , who have traditionally used the filibuster to stop civil rights bills .
Privately , the liberals admitted that the Humphrey amendment had no chance of passage .
Armed with the Nixon opinion , the Senate liberals rounded up their slim majority and prepared to choke off debate on the filibuster battle this week .
Republicans
`` This is the first time in 100 years that a candidate for the presidency announced the result of an election in which he was defeated '' , he said .
The Masters golf tournament proved last Monday what it can do to the strongest men and the staunchest nerves .
`` Just when you think you have it licked , this golf course can get up and bite you '' , Player had said one afternoon midway through the tournament .
Player was the first to feel its teeth .
As he signed his scorecard and walked off the course , Player was almost in tears .
When Palmer hit a good straight drive up the fairway on the 72nd hole , he seemed to have the championship won .
Afterwards , Palmer told Charlie Coe , his last-round partner , that he simply played the hole too fast .
When the shaken Palmer finally did hit his fourth shot , he overshot the hole by 15 feet .
Palmer's 281 for the four rounds at Augusta was a comfortable four strokes ahead of the next closest pro , but it was barely good enough for a second-place tie with Coe .
End at seven
But Palmer knew , as did everybody else at Augusta , that his streak was about to be broken .
More than a streak had ended .
When the winter tour began at Los Angeles last January there was no one in sight to challenge Palmer's towering prestige .
On that final Sunday at Pensacola neither Palmer nor Player was leading the tournament and , as it turned out , neither won it .
Instant rivalry
Even so , it was still not clear to many in the enormous horde of spectators -- unquestionably the largest golf crowd ever -- that this tournament was to be , essentially , a match between Palmer and Player .
On Friday , a day as cloudless and lovely as Thursday had been gray and ugly , the plot of the tournament came clearly into focus .
As Player began his second round in a twosome with amateur Bill Hyndman , his share of the gallery was not conspicuously large for a contender .
Starting half an hour behind Player in company with British Open Champion Kel Nagle , Palmer birdied the 2nd , the 9th , the 13th and the 16th -- four birdies , one bogey and 13 pars for a 69 .
The boldness of champions
As the third round of the tournament began on Saturday and the duel was resumed in earnest , it was Player's superior aggressiveness that carried him into the lead .
But Player's real test came on the ninth hole , a downhill dogleg to the left measuring 420 yards .
`` I was hitting the ball well '' , Player said later , `` and I felt strong .
Player attacked with his four-wood and hit a shot that few who saw it will ever forget .
Palmer , meanwhile , had been having his troubles .
Starting the second nine , Palmer was already four strokes behind Player and knew it .
When Mickey Charles Mantle , the New York Yankees' man of muscle , drives a home run 450 feet into the bleachers , his feat touches upon the sublime .
It is the year when ( 1 ) amiable Jim Gentile of the Baltimore Orioles ambled to the plate in consecutive innings with the bases loaded and , in unprecedented style , delivered consecutive grand-slam home runs ; ;
Pitchers grumble about lively balls and lively bats , the shrinking strike zone , and the fact that the knock-down pitch is now illegal .
Of all the records in peril , one stands apart , dramatic in its making , dramatic in its endurance , and now , doubly dramatic in its jeopardy .
Since 1927 , fewer than a dozen men have made serious runs at Babe Ruth's record and each , in turn , has been thwarted .
Double threat :
After 108 games in 1927 , Ruth had 35 home runs .
`` Even on the basis of 154 games , this is the ideal situation '' , insists Hank Greenberg , now vice-president of the Chicago White Sox .
Roommates :
The sluggers get along so well in fact , that with their families at home for the summer ( Mantle's in Dallas , Maris's in Kansas City ) , they are rooming together .
As roommates , teammates , and home-run mates , Mantle , 29 , who broke in with the Yankees ten years ago , and Maris , 26 , who came to the Yankees from Kansas City two years ago , have strikingly similar backgrounds .
To an extent , the two even look alike .
Light reading :
Mantle is not normally given to public speaking -- or , for that matter , to private speaking .
`` To tell you the truth '' , Maris said , `` Mickey don't talk much '' .
This is no surprising trait for a ballplayer .
Of the two , Mantle is by nature the less outgoing , Maris the more outspoken .
Maris , in talking to reporters , tries to answer all questions candidly and fully , but on rare occasions , he shuns newsmen .
By his own confession , Maris is an angry young man .
Idols' idols :
`` When you came up to the majors , did you seek out Williams for advice '' ? ?
`` Are you kidding '' ? ?
Mantle's hero was Joe DiMaggio .
Neither Mantle nor Maris is totally devoted to baseball above all else .
Each is a complete ballplayer .
, fourth in the league , to
for Maris so far this year ) .
Both are good bunters : Maris once beat out eighteen of nineteen in the minor leagues ; ;
Yet with all their skills , the appeal of Mantle and Maris in 1961 comes down to one basic : The home run .
Appropriately , the emphasis on the home run , at a peak this year , came into being at baseball's lowest moment .
Into Washington on President-elect John F. Kennedy's Convair , the Caroline , winged Actor-Crooner Frank Sinatra and his close Hollywood pal , Cinemactor Peter Lawford , Jack Kennedy's brother-in-law .
A year after he was catapulted over nine officers senior to him and made commandant of the Marine Corps , General David M. Shoup delivered a peppery annual report in the form of a `` happy , warless New Year '' greeting to his Pentagon staff .
Old and new briefly crossed paths in the U.S. Senate , then went their respective ways .
The most famous undergraduate of South Philadelphia High School is a current bobby-sox idol , Dreamboat Cacophonist Fabian ( real name : Fabian Forte ) , 17 , and last week it developed that he will remain an undergraduate for a while .
To Decathlon Man Rafer Johnson ( Time cover , Aug. 29 ) , whose gold medal in last summer's Olympic Games was won as much on gumption as talent , went the A.A.U.'s James E. Sullivan Memorial Trophy as the outstanding U.S. amateur athlete of 1960 .
Tooling through Sydney on his way to race in the New Zealand Grand Prix , Britain's balding Ace Driver Stirling Moss , 31 , all but smothered himself in his own exhaust of self-crimination .
One of Nikita Khrushchev's most enthusiastic eulogizers , the U.S.S.R.'s daily Izvestia , enterprisingly interviewed Red-prone Comedian Charlie Chaplin at his Swiss villa , where he has been in self-exile since 1952 .
G. David Thompson is one of those names known to the stewards of transatlantic jetliners and to doormen in Europe's best hotels , but he is somewhat of an enigma to most people in his own home town of Pittsburgh .
Like Philadelphia's late Dr. Albert C. Barnes who kept his own great collection closed to the general public ( Time , Jan. 2 ) , Thompson , at 61 , is something of a legend in his own lifetime .
He was able to smell a bargain -- and a masterpiece -- a continent away , and the Museum of Modern Art's Alfred Barr said of him : `` I have never mentioned a new artist that Thompson didn't know about '' .
Two years ago Thompson offered his collection to the city .
At the opening of the Dusseldorf show , Thompson himself scarcely glanced at the treasures that he was seeing together for the last time .
Break in Georgia
For 18 months , Hamilton Holmes , 19 , and Charlayne Hunter , 18 , had tried to get into the university .
Charlayne was `` tentatively '' admitted for next fall , after state investigators questioned her white roommate at Wayne State .
Negro lawyers dug into the records of 300 white students , found that many were hardly interviewed at all -- and few had academic records as good as Hamilton Holmes .
Judge Bootle's decision : `` The two plaintiffs are qualified for admission to said university and would already have been admitted had it not been for their race and color '' .
Catch for Chicago
Last week Chicago happily found its top scholar in Caltech's acting dean of the faculty : dynamic Geneticist George Wells Beadle , 57 , who shared the 1958 Nobel Prize in medicine and physiology for discovering how genes affect heredity by controlling cell chemistry ( Time , Cover , July 14 , 1958 ) .
It fell to Chancellor Kimpton , now a Standard Oil ( Indiana ) executive , to spend his nine-year reign tidying up Chicago after the 21-year typhoon of Idealist Robert Maynard Hutchins .
At Caltech , Geneticist Beadle has stuck close to his research as head of the school's famous biology division since 1946 .
A philosopher may point out that the troubles of the Congo began with the old Adam and consequently will never end .
The population of the Congo is 13.5 million , divided into at least seven major `` culture clusters '' and innumerable tribes speaking 400 separate dialects .
At first the Belgian royal family administered the Congo as its own private property .
The Belgians were interested primarily in the economic development of the Congo , which is rich in copper , tin , cobalt , manganese , zinc , and uranium , and cotton and palm oil .
Had they been truly ruthless , the Belgians might have exploited the Congolese without compassion .
The Belgians also placed great emphasis on education .
Why did the Belgians grant independence to a colony so manifestly unprepared to accept it ? ?
As the time for independence approached there were in the Congo no fewer than 120 political parties , or approximately eight for each university graduate .
A final factor which contributed greatly to the fragmentation of the Congo , immediately after independence , was the provincial structure that had been established by the Belgians for convenience in administration .
The Belgian Congo was granted its independence with what seemed a workable Western-style form of government : there were to be a president and a premier , and a bicameral legislature elected by universal suffrage in the provinces .
Twenty-four hours after independence the wild tribesmen commenced fighting each other .
On July 14 the Security Council -- with France and Great Britain abstaining -- voted the resolution which drew the U.N. into the Congo .
Secretary-General Hammarskjold decided that it would be preferable if the U.N. troops sent into the Congo were to come from African , or at least nonwhite , nations -- certainly not from the U.S. , Russia , Great Britain or France .
It took the U.N. three months to bring a modest form of order to the Congo .
But by the end of the three-month period , in October 1960 , something approaching calm settled on the Congo .
From October 1960 to February 1961 , the U.N. forces in the Congo took little action .
During the five-month lull , civil war smoldered and flickered throughout the Congo .
The presidency : talking and listening
High up on the President's priority list was the thorny question of Bizerte .
The President also discussed the Bizerte deadlock with the No. 2 man in the Tunisian Government , Defense Minister Bahi Ladgham , who flew to Washington last week to seek U.S. support .
On the Latin American front , the President held talks with Secretary of the Treasury Douglas Dillon before sending him to Uruguay and the Inter-American Economic and Social Council ( which the President himself had originally hoped to attend ) .
And that was not all .
The President also conferred with emissaries from Guatemala and Nepal who are seeking more foreign aid .
Crime : ' skyjacked '
The plane put down on schedule at 1:35 a.m. in Phoenix .
John Salvador , a farmer from Palm Desert , Calif. , was sitting up front and could see through the door as the trio entered the cockpit .
To Rickards , a 52-year-old veteran 30 years in the air , it was an old story : His plane was being hijacked in mid-flight again much as it had happened in 1930 , when Peruvian rebels made him land a Ford tri-motor at Arequipa .
Most passengers didn't know what had happened until they got on the ground .
What the man wanted was four persons to volunteer as hostages , along with the crew .
They found a large welcoming group -- El Paso policemen , Border Patrol , sheriff's deputies , and FBI men , who surged around the plane with rifles and submachine guns .
Actually , the officers on the ground had no intention of letting the hijackers get away with any kind of an airplane ; ;
As the morning wore on and a blazing West Texas sun wiped the shadows off the Franklin Mountains , police got close enough to the plane to pry into the baggage compartment .
Take off or see the hostages killed .
The tower cleared the plane for take-off at 8 a.m. , and Captain Rickards began taxiing toward the runway .
Several police cars , loaded with armed officers , raced alongside , blazing away at the tires of the big jet .
The day wore on .
Frog-marched off the airplane at 1:48 p.m. , the Beardens were held in bail of $100,000 each on charges of kidnapping and transporting a stolen plane across state lines .
Congress : more muscle
With the money all but in hand , however , the Administration indicated that , instead of the 225,000 more men in uniform that President Kennedy had requested , the armed forces would be increased by only 160,000 .
In all , the Senate signed a check for $46.7 billion , which not only included the extra $3.5 billion requested the week before by President Kennedy , but tacked on $754 million more than the President had asked for .
In other areas , Congressional action last week included :
The Senate ( by voice vote ) and the House ( by 224-170 ) passed and sent to the White House the compromise farm bill which the President is expected to sign , not too unhappily .
The Senate also voted $5.2 billion to finance the government's health , welfare , and labor activities .
Debate on the all-important foreign-aid bill , with its controversial long-range proposals , had just begun on the Senate floor at the weekend .
Food : stew a la Mulligatawny
Over the years , enlivened chiefly by disputes about the relative merits of Maine and Idaho potatoes , the menu has pursued its drab all-American course .
In a daring stroke , the Senate ventured forth last week into the world of haute cuisine and hired a $10,000-per-year French-born maitre d'hotel .
Holders of toll-road bonds are finding improvements in monthly reports on operation of the turnpikes .
Long-term trend of traffic on these roads seems clearly upward .
Result is a better prospect for a full payoff by bonds that once were regarded as highly speculative .
Things are looking up these days for many of the State turnpikes on which investors depend for income from their toll-road bonds .
Traffic on nearly all the turnpikes has been growing .
As a result of the new outlook for turnpikes , investors who bought toll-road bonds when these securities ranked as outright speculations are now finding new hope for their investments .
Another result is that buyers are tending to bid up the prices of these tax-exempt bonds .
Other tax-exempt bonds of State and local governments hit a price peak on February 21 , according to Standard & Poor's average .
Tax-free returns .
Investors , however , still see an element of more-than-ordinary risk in the toll-road bonds .
Many of the toll-road bonds still are selling at prices that offer the prospect of an annual yield of 4 per cent , or very close to that .
That 4 per cent yield is well below the return to be had on good corporation bonds .
For investors whose income is taxed at high rates , though , a tax-free yield of 4 per cent is high .
Swelling traffic .
A new report on the earnings records of toll roads in the most recent 12-month period -- ending in February or March -- shows what is happening .
Nearly all the turnpikes show gains in net revenues during the period .
And there is the bright note : The gains were achieved in the face of temporary traffic lags late in 1960 and early in 1961 as a result of business recession .
Indication : The long-term trend of turnpike traffic is upward .
Look , for example , at the Ohio Turnpike .
As a result , the road's net revenues in the 12 months ending March 31 were 186 per cent of the annual interest payments on the turnpike bonds .
That same pattern of earnings shows up on the Massachusetts Turnpike .
For the year , the road earned 133 per cent of its interest costs , against 121 per cent in the preceding period .
Slow successes .
Some turnpikes have not been in full operation long enough to prove what they can do .
That improvement is continuing .
Success , for many turnpikes , has come hard .
Many rate increases already have been put into effect .
Easier access .
Progress is being made , too , in improving motorists' access to many turnpikes .
Further improvements in earnings of the Kansas Turnpike are expected late in 1961 , with the opening of a new bypass at Wichita , and still later when the turnpike gets downtown connections in both Kansas City , Kans. , and Kansas City , Mo. .
For some roads , troubles .
Investors studying the toll-road bonds for opportunities find that not all roads are nearing their goals .
Traffic and revenues on the Chicago Skyway have been a great disappointment to planners and investors alike .
These , however , are exceptions .
It's going to take time for investors to learn how many of the toll-road bonds will pay out in full .
A top American official , after a look at Europe's factories , thinks the U.S. is in a `` very serious situation '' competitively .
Commerce Secretary Luther Hodges , accompanied by a member of our staff , on May 10 toured plants of two of Italy's biggest companies -- Fiat , the auto producer , and Olivetti , maker of typewriters and calculating machines .
Our staff man cabled from Turin as follows --
`` Follow Secretary Hodges through the Fiat plant , and you learn this :
`` One , modern equipment -- much of it supplied under the Marshall Plan -- enables Fiat to turn out 2,100 cars a day .
`` Two , wage costs are a fraction of the U.S. costs .
`` Three , labor troubles are infrequent .
`` Said Secretary Hodges : ' It's a tough combination for the U.S. to face .
`` Olivetti had a special interest for Hodges .
`` The Olivetti plant near Turin has modern layout , modern machinery .
`` Hodges is trying to get more foreign business to go to the U.S. .
`` Hodges predicted : ' I think we will see more foreign firms coming to the U.S. .
Foreign competition has become so severe in certain textiles that Washington is exploring new ways of handling competitive imports .
The recently unveiled Kennedy moves to control the international textile market can be significant for American businessmen in many lines .
Important aspects of the Kennedy textile plans are these :
An international conference of the big textile-importing and textile-exporting countries will be called shortly by President Kennedy .
Chief aims of the proposed conference are worth noting .
The U.S. will try to get agreement among the industrialized countries to take more textile imports from the less-developed countries over the years .
Point is that developing countries often build up a textile industry first , need encouragement to get on their feet .
Idea is to let these countries earn their way as much as possible .
At the same time , another purpose of the conference will be to get certain low-wage countries to control textile exports -- especially dumping of specific products -- to high-wage textile-producing countries .
Japan , since 1957 , has been `` voluntarily '' curbing exports of textiles to the U.S. .
None of these countries is happy with these arrangements .
The Japanese want to increase exports to the U.S. While they have been curbing shipments , they have watched Hong Kong step in and capture an expanding share of the big U.S. market .
Hong Kong interests loudly protest limiting their exports to Britain , while Spanish and Portuguese textiles pour into British market unrestrictedly .
The Indians and Pakistanis are chafing under similar restrictions on the British market for similar reasons .
The Kennedy hope is that , at the conference or through bilateral talks , the low-wage textile-producing countries in Asia and Europe will see that `` dumping '' practices cause friction all around and may result in import quotas .
Gradual , controlled expansion of the world's textile trade is what President Kennedy wants .
Note , too , that the Kennedy textile plan looks toward modernization or shrinkage of the U.S. textile industry .
`` Get competitive or get out '' .
Import quotas aren't ruled out where the national interest is involved .
But the Kennedy Administration doesn't favor import quotas .
What's happening in textiles can be handwriting on the wall for other lines having difficulty competing with imports from low-wage countries .
Among the highest-paid workers in the world are U.S. coal miners .
Steel Company of Wales , a British steelmaker , wants to bring in Virginia coal , cut down on its takings of Welsh coal in order to be able to compete more effectively -- especially in foreign markets .
Virginia coal , delivered by ship in Wales , will be about $2.80 a ton cheaper than Welsh coal delivered by rail from nearby mines .
U.S. coal is cheap , despite high wages , because of widespread mechanization of mines , wide coal seams , attactive rates on ocean freight .
Productivity of U.S. miners is twice that of the British .
Welsh coal miners , Communist-led , are up in arms at the suggestion that the steel company bring in American coal .
The British Government will have to decide whether to let U.S. coal in .
Every library borrower , or at least those whose taste goes beyond the five-cent fiction rentals , knows what it is to hear the librarian say apologetically , `` I'm sorry , but we don't have that book .
Behind this reply , and its many variations , is the ever-present budget problem all libraries must face , from the largest to the smallest .
Confronted with this situation , most libraries either endure the severe limitations of their budgets and do what they can with what they have , or else depend on the bounty of patrons and local governments to supplement their annual funds .
New York State has what is probably the most advanced of these co-operative systems , so well developed that it has become a model for others to follow .
Both these types , and those in between , are in existence by reason of a legislative interest in libraries that began at Albany as early as 1950 , with the creation by the legislature of county library systems financed by county governments with matching funds from the state .
Under this law annual grants are given to systems in substantial amounts .
Within a system , however , the autonomy of each member library is preserved .
To set up a co-operative library system , the law requires a central book collection of 100,000 nonfiction volumes as the nucleus , and the system is organized around it .
In Nassau County , for example , the heavily settled Long Island suburb of New York City , the system is credited by the state with serving one million persons , a figure that has doubled since 1950 .
The Nassau system recognizes that its major task it to broaden reference service , what with the constant expansion of education and knowledge , and the pressure of population growth in a metropolitan area .
The major part of this collection is in the central headquarters building , and the remainder is divided among five libraries in the system designated as subject centers .
Headquarters gets about 100 requests every day .
Each subject center library was chosen because of its demonstrated strength in a particular area , which headquarters could then build upon .
This kind of cooperation is not wholly new , of course .
Books are not the only resource of the system .
The system well understands that one of its primary responsibilities is to bring children and books together ; ;
Headquarters of the Nassau system is an increasingly busy place these days , threatening to expand beyond its boundaries .
In Nassau , as in other systems , the long-range objective is to bring the maximum service of libraries to bear on the schools , and on adult education in general .
Today , more than ever before , the survival of our free society depends upon the citizen who is both informed and concerned .
The desire and ability to read are important aspects of our cultural life .
A fundamental source of knowledge in the world today is the book found in our libraries .
In every aspect of service -- to the public , to children in schools , to colleges and universities -- the library of today is failing to render vitally needed services .
This is one of the main reasons for National Library Week , April 16-22 , and for its theme : `` For a richer , fuller life , read '' ! !
Assembly session brought much good
There followed the historic appropriations and budget fight , in which the General Assembly decided to tackle executive powers .
Long-range planning of programs and ways to finance them have become musts if the state in the next few years is to avoid crisis-to-crisis government .
In all the turmoil , some good legislation was passed .
No action has been taken , however , on such major problems as ending the fee system , penal reform , modification of the county unit system and in outright banning of fireworks sales .
The legislature expended most of its time on the schools and appropriations questions .
We congratulate the entire membership on its record of good legislation .
League regularly stands on the side of right
These women whose organization grew out of the old suffrage movement are dedicated to Thomas Jefferson's dictum that one must cherish the people's spirit but `` Keep alive their attention '' .
`` If once they become inattentive to the public affairs '' , Jefferson said , `` you and I , and Congress and assemblies , judges and governors , shall all become wolves '' .
Newspapermen and politicians especially are aware of the penetrating attention and expert analysis the league gives to public affairs .
Look to Coosa Valley for industrial progress
Coupling its own budget of $83,750 with a $30,000 state grant authorized by Gov. Vandiver , the group expects to sign a contract in March with Georgia Tech. .
The undertaking has abundant promise .
Rusk idea strengthens United States defense
The danger lay not in believing that our own A-bombs would deter Russia's use of hers ; ;
By limiting American strength too much to nuclear strength , this country limited its ability to fight any kind of war besides a nuclear war .
It also weakened our diplomatic stance , because Russia could easily guess we did not desire a nuclear war except in the ultimate extremity .
This left the Soviets plenty of leeway to start low-grade brushfire aggressions with considerable impunity .
By maintaining the nuclear deterrent , but gearing American military forces to fight conventional wars too , Secretary of State Rusk junks bluff and nuclear brinkmanship and builds more muscle and greater safety into our military position .
DeKalb budget shows county is on beam
It includes a raise in the county minimum wage , creation of several new jobs at the executive level , financing of beefed-up industrial development efforts , and increased expenditures for essential services such as health and welfare , fire protection , sanitation and road maintenance .
That such expansion can be obtained without a raise in taxes is due to growth of the tax digest and sound fiscal planning on the part of the board of commissioners , headed by Chairman Charles O. Emmerich who is demonstrating that the public trust he was given was well placed , and other county officials .
Somewhere , somebody is bound to love us
Power company backs confidence with dollars
The firm does a large amount of research and its forecasts have meaning .
Georgia's mental health program received a badly needed boost from the General Assembly in the form of a $1,750,000 budget increase for the Milledgeville State Hospital .
Actually it amounts to $1,250,000 above what the institution already is receiving , considering the additional half-million dollars Gov. Vandiver allocated last year from the state surplus .
Either way it sounds like a sizable hunk of money and is .
The practice of charging employes for meals whether they eat at the hospital or not should be abolished .
More attendants , nurses and doctors should be hired .
Even with the increase in funds for the next fiscal year , Georgia will be spending only around $3.15 per day per patient .
Georgia has made some reforms , true .
Considering what is being done compared to what needs to be done , it behooves the hospital management to do some mighty careful planning toward making the best possible use of the increase granted .
The end of Trujillo
Trujillo knew a great deal about assassination .
The recent history of the Dominican Republic is an almost classical study of the way in which even a professedly benevolent dictatorship tends to become oppressive .
El Benefactor's vanity grew with his personal wealth .
Until the last year or so the profession of friendship with the United States had been an article of faith with Trujillo , and altogether too often this profession was accepted here as evidence of his good character .
Thereupon followed a demonstration that tyranny knows no ideological confines .
What comes after Trujillo is now the puzzle .
Start on rapid transit
Because the buses would not stop on the parkway , land for bus stations and for parking areas nearby will be needed .
Must Berlin remain divided ? ?
The inference has been too widely accepted that because the Communists have succeeded in building barricades across Berlin the free world must acquiesce in dismemberment of that living city .
So far as the record is concerned , the Western powers have not acquiesced and should not do so .
Though Walter Ulbricht , by grace of Soviet tanks , may be head man in East Germany , that does not give him any right to usurp the government of East Berlin or to absorb that semi-city into the Soviet zone .
The wartime protocol of September 12 , 1944 , designated a special `` Greater Berlin '' area , comprising the entire city , to be under joint occupation .
For some time the Communists honored the distinction between the Soviet zone of Germany and the Soviet sector of Berlin by promulgating separately the laws for the two areas .
That this and the closing of the East Berlin-West Berlin border have not been accepted by the Western governments appears in notes which Britain , France , and the United States sent to Moscow after the latter's gratuitous protest over a visit of Chancellor Adenauer and other West German officials to West Berlin .
The British and other replies to that Moscow note pointed out efforts of the Communist authorities `` to integrate East Berlin into East Germany by isolating it from the outside and attempting to make it the capital of East Germany '' .
This is far from acknowledging or recognizing those efforts as an accomplished fact .
One ground of action certainly exists when fusillades of stray shots go over into West Berlin as Communist `` vopos '' try to gun down fleeing unarmed residents .
Remembering the step-by-step fate of Danzig and the West German misgivings about `` salami '' tactics , it is to be hoped that the dispatch of General Clay to West Berlin as President Kennedy's representative will mark a stiffening of response not only to future indignities and aggressions but also to some that have passed .
Prairie National Park
That picture of the American prairie is as indelibly fixed in the memory of those who have studied the conquest of the American continent as any later cinema image of the West made in live-oak canyons near Hollywood .
The National Park Service now proposes to preserve an area in Pottawatomie County , northeast Kansas , as a `` Prairie National Park '' .
The Park Service makes an impressive ecological and statistical case for creating this new park .
Whisky on the air
Probably the best answer to this kind of entering wedge is congressional action requiring the Federal Communications Commission to ban such advertising through its licensing power .
The National Association of Broadcasters code specifically bars hard-liquor commercials .
Why , then , with these voluntary barricades and some state laws barring liquor ads , is it necessary to seek congressional action ? ?
Soon some members of the two industry groups doubtless will want to amend their codes on grounds that otherwise they will suffer unfairly from the efforts of non-code competitors .
Although the false glamour surrounding bourbon or other whisky commercials is possibly no more fatuous than the pseudo-sophistication with which TV soft-drinks are downed or toothpaste applied , there is a sad difference between enticing a viewer into sipping Oopsie-Cola and gulling him into downing bourbon .
A law is needed .
New York : Democrats' choice
In the central contest , that for Mayor , they may have found some pertinent points in what each faction has said about the other .
Mayor Robert F. Wagner must , as his opponents demand , assume responsibility for his performance in office .
State Controller Arthur Levitt , on the other hand , cannot effectively deny that he has chosen to be the candidate of those party leaders who as a rule have shown livelier interest in political power than in the city's welfare .
Both men are known to be honest and public-spirited .
As Mayor , Mr. Levitt might turn out to be more independent than some of his leading supporters would like .
Mr. Wagner might or might not be a `` new '' Mayor in this third term , now that he is free of the pressure of those party leaders whom he calls `` bosses '' .
But his reelection would strengthen the liberal Democrats and the labor unions who back him .
If this choice is less exciting than New York Democrats may wish , it nevertheless must be made .
Little war , big test
President Kennedy , already two quiet demands down , still refused Thursday to be drawn into delivering a public ultimatum to Moscow .
For Mr. Kennedy , speaking softly and carrying a sizable stick is making the best of a bad situation .
In this case he has put the alternatives clearly to Mr. Khrushchev for the third time .
Since Laos is of no more purely military value to Moscow itself than it is to Washington , this approach might be expected to head off Mr. Khrushchev for the moment .
As wars go , Laos is an extremely little one .
But if anything can bring home to Mr. Khrushchev the idea that he will not really get much enjoyment from watching this Braddock-against-the-Indians contest , it will probably be the fact that SEATO forces are ready to attempt it -- plus the fact that Moscow has something to lose from closing off disarmament and other bigger negotiations with Washington .
Fortunately both the Republicans and America's chief Western allies now are joined behind the neutral Laos aim of the President .
It is ironic that Washington is having to struggle so for a concept that for six years it bypassed as unreasonable .
But since last fall the United States has been moving toward a pro-neutralist position and now is ready to back the British plan for a cease-fire patrolled by outside observers and followed by a conference of interested powers .
The road to a guaranteed-neutral , coup-proof Laos is today almost as difficult as warfare on that nation's terrain .
A vote for educational TV
Twice previously the Senate has approved measures backing ETV and the House has let them die .
This year's Senate measure would provide each state and the District of Columbia with $1,000,000 to be used in support of private , state , or municipal ETV efforts .
The relatively few communities that have educational stations have found them of considerable value .
A good man departs .
He was all of these rolled into one sturdy figure ; ;
The House was his habitat and there he flourished , first as a young representative , then as a forceful committee chairman , and finally in the post for which he seemed intended from birth , Speaker of the House , and second most powerful man in Washington .
Mr. Rayburn was not an easy man to classify or to label .
Two of the vital qualities demanded of a politician by other politicians are that he always keep a confidence and that he keep his word .
The demonstration of his power was never flamboyant or theatrical .
He spoke briefly , sensibly , to the point and without oratorical flourishes .
These public efforts were rare because Mr. Rayburn normally did his counseling , persuading and educating long before an issue reached its test on the House floor .
He was , of course , in the House for a very long time .
And it was the House he loved .
Sound the roll of those with whom he served and who preceded him in death .
He was a fighter for those of his own party .
With Republican presidents , he fought fair .
Under any name -- Mr. Speaker , Mr. Democrat , Mr. Sam -- he was a good man .
un off the Congo track
In 18 months , no more grisly incident has been reported from that jungle .
Does this suggest that the Congo is fit for nationhood or that UN is making any progress whatever toward its goal of so making it ? ?
The main question raised by the incident is how much longer will UN bury its head in the sand on the Congo problem instead of facing the bitter fact that it has no solution in present terms ? ?
Right now , they are pushing a resolution which would have UN use its forces to invade and subjugate Katanga .
The Congo should have been mandated , because it was not ready for independence .
Featherbed reversal
The editorial was based on a news association dispatch which said that the telegraphers had secured an agreement whereby they were guaranteed 40 hours' pay per week whether they worked or not and that a reduction in their number was limited to 2 per cent per year .
Additional information supplied to us discloses that the railroad gained a stabilized supply of telegraphers of which it was in need .
The situation with regard to the Southern Pacific was therefore a special one and not necessarily applicable to other situations in other industries .
Meditations from a fallout shelter
It was , the brief writers decided , `` man's best hope for a peaceful and law abiding world '' .
Meanwhile , in Moscow , Khrushchev was adding his bit to the march of world law by promising to build a bomb with a wallop equal to 100 million tons of TNT , to knock sense into the heads of those backward oafs who can't see the justice of surrendering West Berlin to communism .
A nuclear pacifier of these dimensions -- roughly some six and a half times bigger than anything the United States has triggered experimentally -- would certainly produce a bigger bang , and , just for kicks , Khrushchev might use it to propel the seminar of the house of delegates from St. Louis to the moon , where there wouldn't even be any beer to drink .
While he was at it , the philosopher of the Kremlin contributed an additional assist to the rule of reason by bellowing at those in the west who can't appreciate coexistence thru suicide .
`` Fools '' , he bayed , `` what do you think you are doing '' ? ?
The only response we can think of is the humble one that at least we aren't playing the marimba with our shoes in the United Nations , but perhaps the heavy domes in the house of delegates can improve on this feeble effort .
Another evidence of the spreading rule of reason was provided from Mexico City with the daily hijacking of an American plane by a demented Algerian with a gun .
Less respect for the legal conventions was displayed by Castro's right hand man , Che Guevara , who edified the Inter-American Economic and Social council meeting in Montevideo by reading two secret American documents purloined from the United States embassy at Caracas , Venezuela .
Perhaps the moralities of world law are not advanced by stealing American diplomatic papers and planes , but the Kennedy administration can always file a demurrer to the effect that , but for its own incompetence in protecting American interests , these things would not happen .
Pass the iron rations , please , and light another candle , for it's getting dark down here and we're minded to read a bit of world law just to pass the time away .
The customer loses again
The request for lower rates originated with the Southern railway , which has spent a good deal of time and money developing a 100-ton hopper car with which it says it can move grain at about half what it costs in the conventional , smaller car .
The board's action shows what free enterprise is up against in our complex maze of regulatory laws .
A shock wave from Africa
Mr. Hammarskjold was in Africa on a mission of peace .
The story of the fatal crash is not fully known .
The death of Mr. Hammarskjold removes the United Nations' most controversial leader .
The Congo , in whose cause he died , was the scene of one of his greatest triumphs .
The U.N. session scheduled for today will meet under the cloud of his passing .
If the manner of his passing moves the nations to act in the spirit of his dedication the sore issues that plague the world can yet be resolved with reason and justice .
Monument to togetherness
So we note approvingly a fresh sample of unanimity .
The widely known financial firm has 60 days to spell out the terms of its contract .
The next step awaits approval today by the Metro commissioners as the members of the Dade County Port Authority .
Unanimity on Interama is not surprising .
Interama , as it rises , will be a living monument to Greater Miami's ability to get together on worthwhile enterprises .
A short report and a good one
Much happened in this field during the past 12 months .
`` The established pattern of relative calm in the field of race relations has continued in all areas '' , reported this group headed by Harold Colee of Jacksonville and including two South Floridians , William D. Singer and John B. Turner of Miami .
`` No complaints or charges have been filed during the past year , either verbally or written , from any individual or group .
`` The committee continues to feel that Florida has progressed in a sound and equitable program at both the state and local levels in its efforts to review and assess transition problems as they arise from time to time in the entire spectrum of civil rights '' .
Problems have arisen in this sensitive field but have been handled in most cases with understanding and restraint .
West Germany remains Western
Chancellor Adenauer's Christian Democratic Party slipped only a little in the voting but it was enough to lose the absolute Bundestag majority it has enjoyed since 1957 .
The aging chancellor in all likelihood will be retired .
Moon-faced Ludwig Erhart , the economic expert , probably will ascend to the leadership long denied him .
If he becomes chancellor , Dr. Erhart would make few changes .
What is in doubt as the free Germans and their allies consider the voting trends is the nature of the coalition that will result .
If the party of Adenauer and Erhart , with 45 per cent of the vote , approaches the party of Willy Brandt , which won 36 per cent , the result would be a stiffening of the old resolve .
The Free Democrats ( 12 per cent of the vote ) believe a nuclear war can be avoided by negotiating with the Soviet Union , and more dealings with the Communist bloc .
The question left by the election is whether West Germany veers slightly toward more firmness or more flexibility .
Regardless of the decision two facts are clear .
Better ask before joining
For instance , so-called `` conservative '' organizations , some of them secret , are sprouting in the garden of joining where `` liberal '' organizations once took root .
One specific example is a secret `` fraternity '' which will `` coordinate anti-Communist efforts '' .
According to The Chicago Tribune News Service , State Atty. Gen. Stanley Mosk of California has devised a series of questions which the joiner might well ask about any organization seeking his money and his name : 1 .
Does it assail schools and churches with blanket accusations ? ?
Does it attack other traditional American institutions with unsupportable and wild charges ? ?
Does it put the label of un-American or subversive on everyone with whom it disagrees politically ? ?
Does it attempt to rewrite modern history by blaming American statesmen for wars , Communism , depression , and other troubles of the world ? ?
Does it employ crude pressure tactics with such means as anonymous telephone calls and letter writing campaigns ? ?
Do its spokesmen seem more interested in the amount of money they collect than in the principles they purport to advocate ? ?
In some instances a seventh question can be added : 7 .
Does the organization show an affinity for a foreign government , political party or personality in opposition or preference to the American system ? ?
If the would-be joiner asks these questions he is not likely to be duped by extremists who are seeking to capitalize on the confusions and the patriotic apprehensions of Americans in a troubled time .
Closed doors in city hall
We had assumed that at least this local legislative body had nothing to hide , and , therefore , had no objections to making the deliberations of its committees and the city commissions available to the public .
In the preamble to the open-meeting statutes , collectively known as the Brown Act , the Legislature declares that `` the public commissions , boards and councils and other public agencies in this state exist to aid in the conduct of the people's business .
`` The people of this state do not yield their sovereignty to the agencies that serve them .
The full implementation of these noble words , however , has taken the efforts of five sessions of the Legislature .
Despite the lip service paid by local governments , the anti-secrecy statutes have been continuously subverted by reservations and rationalizations .
We submit that this is a most desirable effect of the law -- and one of its principal aims .
Help when needed
Outwardly , Ciudad Trujillo is calm .
Had U.S. warships not appeared off the Dominican coast , there is every possibility that the country would now be wracked by civil war .
Within the Organization of American States , there may be some criticism of this unilateral American intervention which was not without risk obviously .
Mr. Balaguer's troubles are by no means over .
Matter of survival
Now , as then , it is a matter of jobs .
The issue was sufficiently potent in 1935 to spark secession from the American Federation of Labor of its industrial union members .
But automation and the increasing complexity of factories has renewed the competition for jobs .
Whether it could be as disastrous for American labor as , say , Jimmy Hoffa of the Teamsters , is a matter of conjecture .
Engaged as it is in a battle for world trade as a condition of national survival , this country can have little patience with labor's family feuds .
Deterrent
Mr. Freeman said that in many of the countries he visited on a recent world trade trip people were more awed by America's capacity to produce food surpluses than by our industrial production -- or even by the Soviet's successes in space .
In fact , over the years , the American farmer's capacity to over-produce has cost the taxpayers a large dollar .
The 1961 feed grain program , which the secretary sponsored , has been declared a billion dollar fiasco .
The result : $1.1 billion added to the deficit in the federal budget .
What's wrong at state
The subcommittee is not alone in questioning the effectiveness of the department .
But those who would revitalize so complex an organization must , first of all , overcome the resistance of layers of officials wedded to traditional procedures , suspicious of innovation and fearful of mistakes .
Nor does Sen. Jackson discuss the delicate situation created by the presence in the White House of a corps of presidential assistants engaged in the study of foreign policy .
But competent observers believe he is making progress , particularly toward what Sen. Jackson lists as the primary need -- `` a clearer understanding of where our vital national interests lie and what we must do to promote them '' .
The Jackson report will provide some of the political support Mr. Rusk will need if he is to get rid of department personnel engaged , as Sen. Jackson puts it , `` in work that does not really need doing '' .
Betting men
James P. Mitchell , when he was the head of the department , promised to eat his hat if unemployment didn't drop below three million a couple of years ago .
His successor , Secretary Goldberg , also has been guessing wrong on a drop in the unemployment rate which has been holding just under 7 per cent for the last 11 months .
Mr. Mitchell had an excuse for losing -- the steel strike lasted much longer than he anticipated .
Little resistance
But so convinced of communism's inevitable triumph is Prince Sihanouk that he is ready to throw in the towel .
Prince Sihanouk's powers of prognostication some day may be confirmed but history is not likely to praise the courage of his convictions .
Bottom sighted
And now Mr. Hodges has pioneered further into the economic unknown with the announcement that he thinks business has stopped sliding and that it should start going upward from this point .
The secretary based his assessment on the upturn in retail sales .
Corroborating Mr. Hodges' figures was the Federal Reserve Board's report of the large sales increase in the nation's department stores for the week ending March 4 .
Another optimistic sign , this one from the Labor Department , was the report that the long rise in unemployment compensation payments `` was interrupted for the first time in the week ending Feb. 25 '' .
Mr. Hodges is so hopeful over the outlook that he doesn't think there will be any need of a cut in income taxes .
In New Jersey , too
Against the dramatic fight being waged for preservation of 30 miles of Cape Cod shoreline , the tiny tract at Stone Harbor may seem unimportant .
The move for establishment of a national seashore park on 30,000 acres of Cape Cod , from Provincetown to Chatham , is strengthened by President Kennedy's interest in that area .
By comparison , Stone Harbor bird sanctuary's allies seem less formidable , for aside from the Audubon Society , they are mostly the snowy , common and cattle egrets and the Louisiana , green , little blue and black-crowned herons who nest and feed there .
The desirability of preserving such places as the Cape dunes and Stone Harbor sanctuary becomes more apparent every year .
No joyride
First of all , the recruits will have to undergo arduous schooling .
Despite all this , the idea apparently has captured the imagination of countless youths whose parents are probably more surprised by the response than anybody else .
The study of the St. Louis area's economic prospects prepared for the Construction Industry Joint Conference confirms and reinforces both the findings of the Metropolitan St. Louis Survey of 1957 and the easily observed picture of the Missouri-Illinois countryside .
St. Louis sits in the center of a relatively slow-growing and in some places stagnant mid-continent region .
Gov. Dalton's New Commerce and Industry Commission is moving to create a nine-state regional group in a collective effort to attract new industry .
The research center of the University's School of Business and Public Administration is prepared to undertake the analysis Dr. Ellis has been talking about .
In Southern Illinois , the new federal program of help to economically depressed areas ought to provide some stimulus to growth .
Politics-ridden St. Clair county in Illinois presents another piece of the problem of metropolitan development .
And then there is St. Louis county , where the Democratic leadership has shown little appreciation of the need for sound zoning , of the important relationship between proper land use and economic growth .
Metropolitan St. Louis's relatively slow rate of growth ought to be a priority concern of the political , business , civic and other leaders on both sides of the Mississippi .
An excess of zeal
Granted that the Tammany name and the Tammany tiger often were regarded as badges of political shame , the sachems of the Hall also have a few good marks to their credit .
Further , do our reforming friends really believe that the cartoonists will consent to the banishment of the tiger from their zoo ? ?
The Faget case
The Faget appointment was preposterous on several grounds .
Moreover , Col. Faget's information on Cuba was too outdated to be useful in `` screening '' Castro agents ; ;
Responsibility for the Faget appointment rests with Gen. J. M. Swing , an Eisenhower appointee as head of the Immigration Service .
Congressman Walter has been all-powerful in immigration matters , but he has announced plans to retire in 1962 .
Mr. Eisenhower , politician
Mr. Eisenhower seized upon the incident of the postcard lost by a Peace Corps girl in Nigeria to attack the entire Corps as a `` juvenile experiment '' and to suggest sending a Corps member to the moon .
The former President blithely ignored recent history in speaking of `` dollarette '' dollars under Kennedy Administration fiscal policies .
Finally , Mr. Eisenhower found nothing but confusion in Washington .
Ex-Presidents , relieved of accountability for policy , sometimes seem to feel free of accountability for their words .
Queen of the seas
A new queen , with the prosaic title of Q3 , had been planned for several years to replace the Queen Mary .
Since 1957 , more and more trans-Atlantic passengers have been crossing by air .
The Cunard line has under consideration replacing the Queen Mary with a ship smaller than 75,000 tons .
The decline of the Cunard line from its position of dominance in Atlantic travel is a significant development in the history of transportation .
Mission to Viet Nam
There was good reason for Gen. Taylor to make an inspection trip at this time .
Nothing that is likely to happen , however , should prompt the sending of United States soldiers for other than instructional missions .
Gen. Taylor , the President's special military adviser , is a level-headed officer who is not likely to succumb to propaganda or pressure .
Gov. John M. Dalton , himself a lawyer and a man of long service in government , spoke with rich background and experience when he said in an address here that lawyers ought to quit sitting in the Missouri General Assembly , or quit accepting fees from individuals and corporations who have controversies with or axes to grind with the government and who are retained , not because of their legal talents , but because of their government influence .
The U.N.'s ' gravest crisis '
The integrity of the office not merely requires that the Secretary General shall be , as the Charter puts it , `` the chief administrative officer of the Organization '' , but that neither he nor his staff shall seek or receive instructions from any government or any other authority `` external to the Organization '' .
The Charter does stipulate that `` due regard '' shall be paid to the importance of recruiting the staff on `` as wide a geographical basis as possible '' .
The controversy now revolves mainly around the number and geographic origin of the deputies of the Secretary General and , more particularly , around the nature of his relationship with them .
If any one of them has any power to veto the Secretary General's decisions the nature of the organization will have changed .
This is the root issue for which the United States should stand .
What the new charter does
Lawmaking power is removed from the Board of Estimate and made a partnership responsibility of the City Council and the Mayor .
The Controller retains his essential `` fiscal watchdog '' functions ; ;
Borough Presidents , while retaining membership in the Board of Estimate , lose their housekeeping functions .
Some fiscal changes are important .
A road block to desirable local or borough improvements , heretofore dependent on the pocketbook vote of taxpayers and hence a drag on progress , is removed by making these a charge against the whole city instead of an assessment paid by those immediately affected .
Enlargement of the City Council and a new method of selecting members will be discussed tomorrow .
Inter-american Press
As the press in Cuba was gradually throttled by the Castro regime , more and more Cuban publishers , editors and correspondents were forced into exile .
Freedom of the press was lost in Cuba because of decades of corruption and social imbalances .
Meeting in Moscow
The evident contradiction between the rosy picture of Russia's progress painted by the Communist party's program and the enormous dangers for all humanity posed by Premier Khrushchev's Berlin policy has already led to speculation abroad that the program may be severely altered .
This Congress will see Premier Khrushchev consolidating his power and laying the groundwork for an orderly succession should death or illness remove him from the scene in the next few years .
Dr. Conant's call to action
There is room for disagreement concerning some of Dr. Conant's specific views .
His suggestion that the prestige colleges be made the training institutions for medical , law and graduate schools will run into strong opposition from these colleges themselves -- even though what he is recommending is already taking shape as a trend .
But these are side issues to a powerful central theme .
A call for action `` before it is too late '' has alarming implications when it comes from a man who , in his previous reports on the schools , cautioned so strongly against extreme measures .
And now -- more junk mail
Our creditors do not forget us
Old , tired , trembling the woman came to the cannery .
This did not happen in counties of North Georgia , where the rivers run and make rich the bottom land .
This happened in Decatur , DeKalb County , not 10 miles from the heart of metropolitian Atlanta .
And now , the woman , tired and trembling , came here to the DeKalb County cannery .
O. N. Moss , 61 , tall , grey as a possum , canning plant chief since 1946 , didn't know what to say .
Threat of closing the cannery is a recent one .
But DeKalb citizens , those who use the facilities of the cannery , say the cannery is not supposed to make any money .
`` The cannery '' , said Mrs. Lewellyn Lundeen , an active booster of the cannery since its opening during the war and rationing years of 1941 , to handle the `` victory garden '' produce , `` is a service to the taxpayer .
`` The county , though , seems more interested in those people who don't even try , those who sit and draw welfare checks and line up for surplus food '' .
A driver of a dairy truck , who begins work at 1 a.m. finishes before breakfast , then goes out and grows a garden , and who has used the cannery to save and feed a family of five , asked , `` What in the world will we do '' ? ?
`` What in the world '' , echoed others , those come with the beans , potatoes , the tomatoes , `` will any of us do '' ? ?
Moss , a man who knows how much the cannery helps the county , doesn't believe it will close .
The young married people ; ;
`` Don't ask me if I think the cannery helps '' , he said .
Most of us would be willing to admit that forgiveness comes hard .
`` We tried to settle this dispute '' , he said , `` but could never come to an agreement .
Forgiveness is the door through which a person must pass to enter the Kingdom of God .
Jesus made three things clear about forgiveness .
Then , Jesus indicated that God's forgiveness is unlimited .
Finally , we must be willing to forgive others as many times as they sin against us .
Jesus not only taught forgiveness , He gave us an example of it on the cross .
She's been in and out of my house for a dozen years now , although she's still a teen-ager who looks like a baby , she is getting married .
`` How do you know you love somebody enough to get married '' ? ?
It was the oldest and toughest question young lovers have ever asked : How can you be sure ? ?
`` Aren't you sure '' ? ?
`` Does he ever bore you '' ? ?
`` Bore me '' ? ?
`` I mean '' , I went on ruthlessly , `` when he's not talking about you or himself or the wonders of love , is he interesting ? ?
Because , honey , I thought silently , there are plenty of desert islands in every marriage -- long periods when you're hopelessly stranded , together .
She came back the other day to reassure me .
She asked if I had other advice and , heady with success , I rushed it in , I hope not too late .
I do not know Dr. Wilson Sneed well .
Imagine the searching and the prayer that lay behind the letter the rector wrote after almost a decade of service to this majestic church .
A minister should not stay `` beyond the time that his leadership should benefit '' his church , he wrote , `` for he becomes ordinary .
And so the young minister resigned , to go and study and pray , having never passed a day , he told his parishioners , when `` I did not gain from you far more than I ever gave to you '' .
His very honest act called up the recent talk I had with another minister , a modest Methodist , who said : `` I feel so deeply blessed by God when I can give a message of love and comfort to other men , and I would have it no other way : and it is unworthy to think of self .
A man who gives himself to God and to the believers of his church takes upon himself a life of giving .
Yet we who lean upon such a man and draw strength from him and expect interpretation of the infinite through him -- we who readily accept his sacrifice as our due , we of the congregations are the first to tell him what is in our minds instead of listening to what is in his soul .
And a minister of all men is most conscious that he is mere man -- prone to the stresses that earthly humanity is heir to .
We expect bestowal of God's love through him .
Mr. Podger always particularly enjoyed the last night of each summer at Loon Lake .
The evening was not always spent in the same way .
In the midst of it all , Mr. Podger came out on the Pod porch , alone .
The prize was an old-fashioned , woven cloth hammock , complete with cross-top pillow , fringed side pieces , and hooks for hanging .
Mr. Podger sat down in it , pushed himself back and forth in one or two slow , rhythmic motions , and then swung his feet up into it .
The voice sank back into the general tangle of sound , but the question stayed in Mr. Podger's mind .
It had begun with the blue jay feather .
Then , since the auction was being held nearby , he had walked to it .
Mr. Podger took no chances .
The turtle immediately withdrew into its private council room to study the phenomenon .
Where was the driver now ? ?
Then there had been the auction itself .
`` I like them things , too '' , he had said .
Mr. Podger had thanked him gravely , and now he made use of the advice .
Alacrity , the Podger cat , came by the hammock , rubbed her back briefly against it , and then , sure of a welcome , hopped up .
Mr. Podger was just adding this to his pictures of the day when the screen door opened and Pam burst out .
Mr. Podger opened his cocoon and emerged , tucking Alacrity under his arm to bring her in by the fire .
Desegregation is beginning in two more important Southern cities -- Dallas and Atlanta .
These programs emphasize the acceptance of biracial classrooms peacefully .
The two cities have the examples of Little Rock and New Orleans to hold up as warnings against resorting to violence to try to stop the processes of desegregation .
In each case there was an initial act of violence .
In each city quick public reaction and fast action by the city government halted the threats of more serious incidents .
The Nashville plan , incidentally , has become recognized as perhaps the most acceptable and thus the most practical to put into effect in the troubled South .
The program has worked well in both Nashville and Houston .
Generally , throughout the South , there is a growing impatience with the pattern of violence with which every step of desegregation is met .
Perhaps the most eloquent move toward removal of racial barriers has been in Dallas .
So successful has been this program , worked out by white and Negro civic leaders , that further extensions are expected in the next few months .
This is a radical change in attitude from the conditions which prevailed several years ago , when a series of bombings was directed against Negroes who were moving into previously all-white neighborhoods of Dallas .
It is also symptomatic of a change in attitude which appears to be spreading all across the South .
All across the South there are signs that racial violence is finding less approval among whites who themselves would never take active part but might once have shown a tolerant attitude toward it .
There are many causes for this change .
And as the businessmen have begun to act , a real sense of co-operation has sprung up .
Since moving from a Chicago suburb to Southern California a few months ago , I've been introduced to a new game called Lanesmanship .
A driver cruising easily at 70 m.p.h. in Lane A of a four-lane freeway spies an incipient traffic jam ahead .
The adjacent driver in Lane B has three choices open to him .
The really remarkable thing to me is that most California natives unhesitatingly elect to slow down and permit the invading car free access .
This could never happen in my native Chicago .
This negative explanation of courtesy on the freeways , however , does an injustice to Southern California drivers .
During one recent day of driving about Los Angeles there were actually a dozen occasions when oncoming drivers stopped an entire lane of traffic to permit me to pull out of an impossible side street .
Miami , Fla. , March 17 .
An out-of-town writer came up to Paul Richards today and asked the Oriole manager if he thought his ball club would be improved this year .
Now Richards , of course , is known as a deep thinker as baseball managers go .
`` It's a whole lot easier '' , he said , `` to increase the population of Nevada , than it is to increase the population of New York city '' .
`` That is undoubtedly a hell of a quote '' , said the writer , scratching his head .
Two spots open
It should be easier to plug two spots than it was to fill the wholesale lots that were open last year , but so far it hasn't worked that way .
This angle of just where the Orioles can look for improvement this year is an interesting one .
Obviously , if this club is going to move from second to first in the American League , it will have to show improvement someplace .
You certainly can't expect the infield to do any better than it did last year .
Robby could be better
It's the same with Ron Hansen and Jim Gentile .
Hansen will be getting a late spring training start , which might very well set him back .
There are some clubs which claim they learned something about pitching to him last year .
Breeding might move up
I have a hunch Marv Breeding might move up a notch .
So , all in all , the infield can't be expected to supply the added improvement to propel the Birds from second to first .
And the pitching will also have trouble doing better .
Where , then , can we look for improvement ? ?
`` From Triandos , Brandt and Walker '' , answers Richards .
The man is right , and at this time , indications are that these three are ready for better seasons .
Triandos hasn't proved it yet , but he says he's convinced his thumb is all right .
I'm still not convinced , though , I'll have to see more of him before predicting that big year for him .
To me , Brandt looks as though he could be in for a fine year .
When he came to Baltimore , he was leaving a team which was supposed to win the National League pennant , and he was joining what seemed to be a second division American League club .
And Walker looks stronger , seems to be throwing better than he did last year .
So , if the Orioles are to improve , Brandt , Triandos and Walker will have to do it .
So far the platoons on left and right fielders don't seem capable of carrying the load .
Of course , this isn't taking into consideration the population of Nevada and New York city , but it's the way things look from here at this point .
Is the mother of an `` autistic '' child at fault ? ?
Some people believe she did .
We think differently .
Sometimes she can -- to a large extent -- help him overcome them .
The mother of a difficult child can do a great deal to help her own child and often , by sharing her experiences , she can help other mothers with the same problem .
total disinterest
`` You don't believe that autistic children become autistic because of something that happens to them or because of the way their mother treats them .
`` One thing I notice which I have seldom heard mentioned .
This mother is quite correct .
What future holds
`` I try to treat Daniel as if he were normal , though of course I realize he is far from that at present .
`` What is your experience with autistic children ? ?
Many autistic children grow up to lead relatively normal lives .
Single-color use
The other children in the class use this same coloring book and do a fairly good job with things their proper color .
No , coloring isn't exactly something you teach a child .
Seen in decorating circles of late is a renewed interest in an old art : embroidery .
One such , in fact , is a rug .
Traditional crewel embroidery which seems to be appearing more frequently this fall than in the past few years is still available in this country .
Among some recent imports were seat covers for one series of dining room chairs on which were depicted salad plates overflowing with tomatoes and greens and another set on which a pineapple was worked in naturalistic color .
Chinese influence
Modern embroidered panels , framed and meant to be hung on the wall , are another aspect of this trend .
California Democrats this weekend will take the wraps off a 1962 model statewide campaign vehicle which they have been quietly assembling in a thousand district headquarters , party clubrooms and workers' backyards .
They seem darned proud of it .
And they're confident that the GOP , currently assailed by dissensions within the ranks , will be impressed by the purring power beneath the hood of this grassroots-fueled machine .
Their meeting at San Francisco is nominally scheduled as a conference of the California Democratic Council directorate .
Out of this session may come : 1
At the head of the CDC is an unorthodox , 39-year-old amateur politico , Thomas B. Carvey Jr. , whose normal profession is helping develop Hughes Aircraft's moon missiles .
Viewed from afar , the CDC looks like a rather stalwart political pyramid : its elected directorate fans out into an array of district leaders and standing committees , and thence into its component clubs and affiliated groups -- 500 or so .
Much of its strength stems from the comfortable knowledge that every `` volunteer '' Democratic organization of any consequence belongs to the Aj .
Moreover , the entire state Democratic hierarchy , from Gov. Brown on down to the county chairmen , also participates in this huge operation .
Contrarily , Republican `` volunteers '' go their separate ways , and thus far have given no indication that they'd be willing to join forces under a single directorate , except in the most loose-knit fashion .
Carvey believes that reapportionment , which left many Democratic clubs split by these new district boundaries , actually will increase CDC membership .
Biggest organizational problem , he adds , is setting up CDC units in rock-ribbed Democratic territory .
Like most Democratic spokesmen , Carvey predicts 1962 will be a tremendously `` partisan year '' .
In all probability , the council will screen and endorse candidates for the Assembly and for Congress , and then strive to put its full weight behind these pre-primary favorites .
Naturally , the statewide races will provide the major test for the expanding council .
Shunted aside by the rampant organizers for John F. Kennedy last year , who relegated it to a somewhat subordinate role in the Presidential campaign , the CDC plainly intends to provide the party's campaign muscle in 1962 .
Carvey considers that former Vice President Nixon would be Brown's most formidable foe , with ex-Gov. Knight a close second .
In his CDC work , Carvey has the close-in support and advice of one of California's shrewdest political strategists : former Democratic National Committeeman Paul Ziffren , who backed him over a Northland candidate espoused by Atty. Gen. Stanley Mosk .
note : We've just received an announcement of the 54th Assembly district post-reapportionment organizing convention Wednesday night in South Pasadena's War Memorial Bldg. , which graphically illustrates the CDC's broad appeal .
This is going to be a language lesson , and you can master it in a few minutes .
It works with English , Russian , German , Hungarian or almost any other foreign tongue .
For some compulsive reason which would have fascinated Dr. Freud , Communists of all shapes and sizes almost invariably impute to others the very motives which they harbor themselves .
President Kennedy's latest warning to the Communist world that the United States will build up its military strength to meet any challenge in Berlin or elsewhere was , somewhat surprisingly , reported in full text or fairly accurate excerpts behind the Iron Curtain .
Now listen closely :
Moscow radio from the Literary Gazette in English to England :
`` President Kennedy once again interpreted the Soviet proposals , to sign a peace treaty with Germany as a threat , as part of the world menace allegedly looming over the countries of capitalism .
The Soviet news agency TASS datelined from New York in English to Europe :
`` President Kennedy's enlargement of the American military program was welcomed on Wall Street as a stimulus to the American munitions industry .
TASS datelined Los Angeles , in English to Europe :
`` Former Vice President Nixon came out in support of President Kennedy's program for stepping up the arms race .
TASS from Moscow in English to Europe :
`` The American press clamored for many days promising President Kennedy would reply to the most vital domestic and foreign problems confronting the United States .
And now , for Communist listeners and readers :
Moscow Radio in Russian to the USSR :
`` The U.S. President has shown once again that the United States needs the fanning of the West Berlin crisis to justify the armaments race .
Moscow Novosti article in Russian , datelined London :
`` U.S. pressure on Britain to foster war hysteria over the status of West Berlin has reached its apogee .
East Berlin ( Communist ) radio in German to Germany :
`` A better position for negotiations is the real point of this speech .
Moscow TASS in Russian datelined Sochi :
`` Chairman Khrushchev received the U.S. President's disarmament adviser , John McCloy .
Now , to translate from the Communese , this means :
The `` West Berlin '' crisis is really an East Berlin crisis .
The crisis was artificially stirred up by the Kremlin ( Wall Street ) and the Red Army ( Pentagon ) egged on by the West Germans ( East Germans ) .
The reason was to speed up domestic production in the USSR , which Khrushchev promised upon grabbing power , and try to end the permanent recession in Russian living standards .
Chairman Khrushchev ( Kennedy ) rattles his rockets ( sabre ) in order to cure his internal ills and to strengthen his negotiating position .
The Soviet Union will fight neither a conventional nor a nuclear war over Berlin , and neither will its Warsaw Pact allies .
Chairman Khrushchev and John McCloy had a terrible row at Sochi .
See , Communese is easy -- once you get onto it .
Aug. 4 , 1821 , nearly a century after Benjamin Franklin founded the Pennsylvania Gazette -- a century during which it had undergone several changes in ownership and a few brief suspensions in publication -- this paper made its first appearance as the Saturday Evening Post .
When founded by Franklin the Gazette was a weekly family newspaper and under its new name its format remained that of a newspaper but its columns gradually contained more and more fiction , poetry , and literary essays .
Little more than a fine old name , valuable principally because of the Franklin tradition , the Saturday Evening Post was slow to revive .
`` Remember the French railroad baron who was going to take me floating down the Nile '' ? ?
All this remembering took place the other night when I had supper with the Ziegfeld Girls at the Beverly Hills Club .
A quarter of a century has gone by since this bevy of walking dreams sashayed up and down the staircases of the old New Amsterdam Theater , N.Y. .
I was anxious to hear about those dazzling days on the Great White Way .
`` Billie was really beautiful '' ! !
Sing Sing's prisoner strike was motivated by a reasonable purpose , a fair break from parole boards .
A three-day confinement week , with a month's vacation and shorter hours all around could be an ultimate demand from cell occupants of the nation , with fringe benefits including : 1 .
Wider space between iron bars and agreement by prison boards to substitute rubber in 20 per cent of metal .
An agreement allowing convicts to pass on type of locks used on prison doors .
Specific broadening of travel rights .
The right to leave the hoosegow any time to see a lawyer instead of waiting for a lawyer to make a trip to the prison .
Recognition of Prisoners Union rule that no member of an iron or steel workers union be permitted to repair a sawed-off bar without approval and participation of representative of the cell occupant .
No warden or guard to touch lock , key or doorknob except when accompanied by a prisoners' committee with powers of veto .
State and federal approval of right to walk out at any time when so voted by 51 per cent of the prisoners .
The death of Harold A. Stevens , oldest of the Stevens brothers , famed operators of baseball , football and race track concessions , revived again the story of one of the greatest business successes in history .
IBM has a machine that can understand spoken words and talk back .
Rembrandt's `` Aristotle Contemplating Bust of Homer '' brought $2,300,000 at auction the other night .
The owner of the painting got it for $750,000 , sold it for $500,000 in a market crash , and bought it back for $590,000 .
`` Wagon Train '' is reported the No. 1 TV show .
Lucius Beebe's book , `` Mr. Pullman's Elegant Palace Car '' , fills us with nostalgia , recalling days when private cars and Pullmans were extra wonderful , with fine woodwork , craftsmanship in construction , deep carpets and durable upholstery .
Not only is Mr. Frelinghuysen a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee , but he is the grandson of the man who was instrumental in opening relations between the United States and Korea , Frederick T. Frelinghuysen , Secretary of State in the administration of Chester A. Arthur .
Next year is the 80th anniversary of the signing of the treaty between Korea and the United States and experts in Seoul are trying to find the correspondence between Frederick Frelinghuysen , who was Secretary of State in 1883 and 1884 , and Gen. Lucius Foote , who was the first minister to Korea .
They enlisted the help of the New Jersey congressman , who has been able to trace the letters to the national archives , where they are available on microfilm .
On the job
In his first six weeks in office he presided over 96 conferences , attended 35 official breakfasts and dinners , studied and signed 285 official papers and personally took 312 telephone calls .
In addition , he said , he has answered more than 400 messages of congratulations which led him to the comment that he himself had decided he wouldn't send another congratulatory message for the rest of his life .
Sen. Case Aj , has received a nice `` thank you '' note from a youngster he appointed to the Air Force Academy in Colorado .
Air Force life is great , the cadet wrote , `` though the fourth-class system is no fun '' .
`` We have just returned from Roswell , N.M. , where we were defeated , 34 to 9 '' , the young man noted .
Kind Mr. Sam
Mr. Dwyer said that although it was obvious that Mr. Rayburn was not well he stopped , gave the youngster his autograph , asked where he was from and expressed the hope that he would enjoy his visit to Congress .
Two days later Mr. Rayburn left Washington for the last time .
The 350th anniversary of the King James Bible is being celebrated simultaneously with the publishing today of the New Testament , the first part of the New English Bible , undertaken as a new translation of the Scriptures into contemporary English .
Since it was issued in the spring of 1611 , the King James Version has been most generally considered the most poetic and beautiful of all translations of the Bible .
This resulted in revisions of the King James Bible in 1881-85 as the English Revised Version and in 1901 as the American Standard Version .
Not rival
Time , of course will testify whether the new version will have achieved its purpose .
If this new Bible does not increase in significance by repeated readings throughout the years , it will not survive the ages as has the King James Version .
However , an initial perusal and comparison of some of the famous passages with the same parts of other versions seems to speak well of the efforts of the British Biblical scholars .
For example , in the third chapter of Matthew , verses 13-16 , describing the baptism of Jesus , the 1611 version reads :
`` Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan unto John , to be baptized of him .
`` But John forbad him , saying , I have need to be baptized of thee , and comest thou to me ? ?
`` And Jesus answering said unto him , Suffer it to be so now : for thus it becometh us to fulfill all righteousness .
`` And Jesus , when he was baptized went up straightway out of the water : and lo , the heavens were opened unto him , and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove , and lighting upon him '' .
Clearer meaning
( the paragraphing , spelling and punctuation are reproduced as printed in each version .
Among the most frequently quoted Biblical sentences are the Beatitudes and yet so few persons , other than scholars , really understand the true meaning of these eight blessings uttered by Jesus at the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount .
To illustrate , the first blessing in the King James Bible reads : `` Blessed are the poor in spirit ; ;
Some of the poetic cadence of the older version certainly is lost in the newer one , but almost anyone , with a fair knowledge of the English language , can understand the meaning , without the necessity of interpretation by a Biblical scholar .
In the second and third chapters of Revelation the new version retains , however , the old phrase `` angel of the church '' which Biblical scholars have previously interpreted as meaning bishop .
Mostly contemporary
Originally recorded by hand , these words have been copied and recopied , translated and retranslated through the ages .
There is one danger , however .
The New Testament offered to the public today is the first result of the work of a joint committee made up of representatives of the Church of England , Church of Scotland , Methodist Church , Congregational Union , Baptist Union , Presbyterian Church of England , Churches in Wales , Churches in Ireland , Society of Friends , British and Foreign Bible Society and National Society of Scotland .
Prof. C. H. Dodd , 76 , a Congregational minister and a leading authority on the New Testament , is general director of the project and chairman of the New Testament panel .
Sizzling temperatures and hot summer pavements are anything but kind to the feet .
There are many soft and light shoe leathers available .
Styles run the gamut from slender and tapered with elongated toes to a newer squared toe shape .
Coolest shade
In the tintable group are high and little heels , squared and oval throats , and shantung-like textures .
Don't overlook the straws this year .
The citrus tones popular in clothing are also to be found afoot .
Designed for ease
An electric toothbrush ( Broxodent ) may soon take its place next to the electric razor in the American bathroom .
The unit consists of a small motor that goes on as soon as it is plugged in .
Most of us brush our teeth by hand .
The electric toothbrush moves in a vertical direction , the way dentists recommend .
It is conceivable that Broxodent could do a better job than ordinary brushing , especially in those who do not brush their teeth properly .
But for many of us , it will prove an enjoyable luxury .
Turn over
Steam baths
Sewing brings numbness
Brace for sciatica
Cholesterol and thyroid
The gap between the bookshelf and the record cabinet grows smaller with each new recording catalogue .
There's more reading and instruction to be heard on discs than ever before , although the spoken rather than the sung word is as old as Thomas Alva Edison's first experiment in recorded sound .
If the record buyer's tastes are somewhat eclectic or even the slightest bit esoteric , he will find them satisfied on educational records .
Everything from poetry to phonetics , history to histrionics , philosophy to party games has been adapted to the turntable .
For sheer ambition , take the Decca series titled modestly `` Wisdom '' .
These sages include poet Carl Sandburg , statesman Jawaharlal Nehru and sculptor Jacques Lipchitz , in Volume One , and playwright Sean O'Casey , David Ben-Gurion , philosopher Bertrand Russell and the late Frank Lloyd Wright in the second set .
There's more specialization and a narrower purpose in two albums recently issued by Dover Publications .
But the firm has recognized the tight dollar and the tourist's desire to visit the `` smaller , less-traveled and relatively inexpensive countries '' , and is now prepared to teach modern Greek and Portuguese through recordings .
Thanks to Spoken Arts Records , history buffs may hear Lincoln's `` most memorable speeches and letters '' in a two-disc set , interpreted by Lincoln authority and lecturer Roy P. Basler .
For those who `` like poetry but never get around to reading it '' , the Library of Congress makes it possible for poets to be heard reading their own work .
Newest on the list are John Ciardi , W. D. Snodgrass , I. A. Richards , Oscar Williams , Robert Hillyer , John Hall Wheelock , Stephen Vincent Benet , Edwin Muir , John Peal Bishop and Maxwell Bodenheim .
Decca is not the only large commercial company to impart instruction .
In an effort to fortify himself against the unforseen upsets sure to arise in the future , Herbert A. Leggett , banker-editor of the Phoenix `` Arizona Progress '' , reflects upon a few of the depressing experiences of the feverish fifties .
One of the roughest was the TV quiz shows , which gave him inferiority complexes .
But the one that upset the financially wise was the professional dancer who related in a book how he parlayed his earnings into a $2,000,000 profit on the stock market .
People who take us for suckers are like the Westerner who had on exhibit his superior marksmanship in the form of a number of bull's-eye achievements .
One of the obstacles to the easy control of a 2-year-old child is a lack of verbal communication .
If his mother loves him , he clings to that love as a ballast .
His desires are so strong that he needs constant reassurance of his mother's love for him and what she expects of him , in order to overcome them .
What can a mother do then to prevent misbehavior ? ?
She should offer substitutes for the temptations which seem overwhelmingly desirable to the child .
During this precarious period of development the mother should continue to influence the growth of the child's conscience .
There is no use trying to `` Explain '' to a 2-year-old .
This is the period during the melancholy days of autumn when universities and colleges schedule what they call `` Homecoming Day '' .
The football opponent on homecoming is , of course , selected with the view that said opponent will have little more chance than did a Christian when thrown to one of the emperor's lions .
Even with all possible precaution , homecomings are usually rather cruel and sad , and only the perpetually ebullient and the continually optimistic are made happy by them .
More often than not , as the Old Grad wanders along the old paths , his memory of happy days when he strolled one of the paths with a coed beside him becomes an ache and a pain .
Undergraduates
His dream goes .
It is not much better if he meets with old classmates .
If they do meet and recognize one another , slap backs and embrace , the moment soon is done .
Middle-aged spread
It is , if anything , worse on the old player
He sits in the stands and he doesn't like that .
He sits there remembering the tense moment before the ball was snapped ; ;
But it is no use .
No matter how often a man goes back to the scenes of his youth and strength , they can never be recaptured again .
Since the obvious is not always true , the Republican National Committee wisely analyzed its defeat of last autumn and finds that it occurred , as suspected , in the larger cities .
Of 40 cities with populations of 300,000 and more , Mr. Kennedy carried 26 and Mr. Nixon 14 .
Republican research broke down the vote in Philadelphia .
' task force '
The task force might make a start in Washington with Republican congressional leaders .
Senator Mundt's gross distortion of President Eisenhower's conversation into a denunciation of President Kennedy as too left wing , a statement Mr. Eisenhower declared to be entirely false , is another case in point .
Errors repeated
The Republican party was not lacking in humanity , but it permitted its extremely partisan leadership to make it appear devoid of any consideration for people in trouble .
One may be sure the present Republican congressional leadership hasn't meant to repeat this error .
The most articulate Republicans are those who , in their desire to get back at Mr. Kennedy , already have created the image of a Republican leadership which is reluctant to assist the distressed and the unemployed , and which is even more unwilling to help old people who need medical care .
The 1962 General Assembly has important business to consider .
After the Griffin-Byrd political troup has completed the circuit in November in the name of a Pre-Legislative Forum , this is going to be the most politically oriented Legislature in history .
Every legislator from Brasstown Bald to Folkston is going to have his every vote subjected to the closest scrutiny as a test of his political allegiances , not his convictions .
Hoped-for legislative action on adjustment of the county unit system stands less chance than ever .
How unpartisan will be the recommendations of Lt. Gov. Garland Byrd's Senate Committee on Government Operations ? ?
The situation already was bad because the Legislature moved the governor's race forward a few months , causing the campaigning to get started earlier than usual .
But when former Gov. Marvin Griffin and Lt. Gov. Byrd accepted the invitations of the Georgia State Chamber of Commerce to join the tour next November , the situation was aggravated .
Neither had a choice other than to accept the invitation .
The Georgia State Chamber of Commerce tried to guard against the danger of eliminating potential candidates .
But State Party Chairman James Gray of Albany said no , and he didn't mince any words .
There are other dangers :
Politics is an accelerating game .
These men are spenders .
The trouble is that at first glance the idea looks like such a good one .
But further thought brings the shuddery visions of a governor's race being run in the next Legislature , the spectre of big spending programs , the ooze of mudslinging before the campaign should even begin .
If it will simply delay the debates until the qualifications are closed next spring , and then carry all the candidates on a tour of debates , it can provide a service to the state .
But the Legislature should be granted the opportunity to complete its work before choosing up sides for the race .
Former British Prime Minister Attlee says Eisenhower was not a `` great soldier '' .
Congressmen returning from recess say the people admire President Kennedy so much , they're even willing to heed his call to sacrifice -- and give up his program .
Slogan of the John Birch Society : `` Paddle your own canoe .
A Republican survey says Kennedy won the '60 election on the religious issue .
The Providence Journal editorial ( Jan. 25 ) entitled `` East Greenwich Faces A Housing Development Problem '' points to a dilemma that faces communities such as ours .
First of all there is ample area in East Greenwich already zoned in the classification similar to that which petitioner requested .
What we are attempting to do is achieve and maintain a balance between medium density and low density residential areas and industrial and commercial development .
In order to attract additional industry that is compatible with this community it is all the more important to present to the industrial prospect an orderly balance in the tax structure .
While Councilman Olson cited the anticipated increase in school costs in answer to a direct question from a taxpayer , the impact upon a school system does not have to be measured only in increased taxes to find alarm in uncontrolled growth .
The `` fruitful course '' of metropolitanization that you recommend is currently practiced by the town of East Greenwich and had its inception long before we learned what it was called .
The East Greenwich Police Department utilizes the radio transmission facilities of the Warwick Police Department , thereby eliminating duplication of facilities and ensuring police coordination in the Cowessett-East Greenwich-Potowomut area of the two communities .
The East Greenwich Fire District services parts of Warwick as well as East Greenwich .
The taxpayers of East Greenwich appropriate sums of money , as do other Kent County communities , for the support of the Kent County Memorial Hospital , a regional facility .
The East Greenwich Free Library receives financial support from the town of East Greenwich and the City of Warwick to supplement its endowment .
Feelers were put out last year to the City of Warwick , as reported in your newspapers , suggesting investigation of a common rubbish disposal area to service the Potowomut and Cowessett areas of Warwick along with East Greenwich .
East Greenwich was one of the first Rhode Island towns to enter into contract agreement with the Rhode Island Development Council for planning services we could not provide for ourselves .
The education program for retarded children conducted by the East Greenwich school system has pupils from at least one neighboring community .
I feel compelled to write this because I am greatly concerned with the problem of community growth rate and the relation between types of growth in a town such as East Greenwich .
Until professional planners meet this situation squarely and update the concepts of zoning in a manner acceptable to the courts , I hope we in East Greenwich can continue to shape our own destiny .
I would like very much , on behalf of my husband and myself , to send our eternal thanks to all the wonderful people responsible for the Gabrielle Fund .
It is indeed true , as stated in the famous novel of our day , `` For Whom The Bell Tolls '' , that `` no man is an island , entirely of itself ; ;
Thanks to the generosity of Mr. Irving J. Fain , president of the Temple Beth El ; ;
Bless you my friends , for it is through love and service that brotherhood becomes a reality .
I am a sophomore at Mount Pleasant High School .
A few weeks ago , I read in the Bulletin that there were to be given Chinese classes in Cranston .
The following week , I read in the Sunday paper that the students of Russia begin European and Asian languages in the seventh grade .
I wish you could see the situation as I see it .
I do not think that America is like Russia , not in the least ! !
Then people wonder why Russian pupils are more advanced than American students .
At the height of the first snowstorm we had , it was impossible for me to get medical attention needed during an emergency .
However , the East Providence Rescue Squad made its way through to my home in time of desperation .
Words cannot tell of the undivided attention and comfort their service gave to me .
The rescue squad is to be praised immensely for the fine work they do in all kinds of weather .
Many thanks for a job well done .
The Providence Sunday Journal article ( Jan. 29 ) asking whether American taxpayers are being victimized by a gigantic giveaway to pay for the care of war veterans who have non-service-connected disabilities sounds as though The Providence Journal is desperate for news .
On the question of admission to Veterans Administration hospitals of service-connected and non-service-connected disabled veterans , it must be recognized that there are many men who are greatly affected by war service .
The arguments advanced by those individuals and groups who oppose the system in force and who would drastically curtail or do away entirely with hospital care for the non-service-connected case , seem to be coldly impractical and out-of-step with the wishes of the general public .
I believe in priority for service-connected disabled veterans in admission to VA hospitals .
Some critics say that the length of stay in a hospital is too long .
Secondly , the VA physician knows that when the patient leaves the hospital , he is no longer going to have a chance to visit his patient .
The American public must be presented with the facts concerning VA hospitalization .
It seems that open season upon veterans' hospitalization is once more upon us .
We veterans acknowledge the fact that as time passes the demand for medical care at VA hospitals will grow proportionately as age fosters illness .
`` A lousy job ''
During his aggressive campaign to win his present position , Mr. Kennedy was vitriolic about this country's `` prestige '' abroad .
If the President of the United States really feels he won himself a `` lousy job '' , then heaven help us all .
Questions shelters
Top scientists have warned that an area hit by an atomic missile of massive power would be engulfed in a suffocating fire storm which would persist for a long time .
This sum spent for foreign economic aid , the peace corps , food for peace , or any other program to solve the problems of the underdeveloped countries would be an investment that would pay off in world peace , increased world trade , and prosperity for every country on the globe .
Let us prepare for peace , instead of for a war which would mean the end of civilization .
Short shorts on the campus
Is this what our children are to come face to face with when they are ready for college in a few years ? ?
High school students have more sense of the way to dress than college students .
Masaryk award
Douglas has consistently voted to aid the people who killed Masaryk , and against principles Masaryk died to uphold .
Subsidies from CTA
Why should CTA regular riders subsidize reduced transportation for old people any more than the people who drive their own cars or walk to work should ? ?
Marketing meat
I am the wife of the owner of a small , independent meat market .
There is a trend to packaging meat at a central source , freezing it , and shipping it to outlying stores , where meat cutters will not be required .
Most women , in this age of freezers , shop for the entire week on week-ends , when prices are lower .
Independent market owners work six days a week ; ;
The meat cutters' union , which has a history of being one of the fairest and least corrupt in our area , represents the little corner markets as well as the large supermarkets .
The Legion Convention and Sidney Holzman
I regret that Bertha Madeira ( Today's `` Voice '' ) obtained incorrect information .
The resolution under discussion at the convention was to require the boards of election to instruct judges to properly display the American flag .
The resolution further asked that polling place proprietors affix an attachment to their premises for the display of the flag .
It was my desire to advise the membership of the Legion that the majority of polling places are on private property and , without an amendment to the law , we could not enforce this .
Teaching the handicapped
In these days of serious shortage of properly trained teachers qualified to teach physically handicapped and mentally handicapped children , the establishment of such an institute will be a major contribution to the field .
The Illinois Commission for Handicapped Children , which for 20 years has had the responsibility of coordinating the services of tax supported and voluntary organizations serving handicapped children , of studying the needs of handicapped children in Illinois , and of promoting more adequate services for them , indeed welcomes this new important resource which will help the people of Illinois toward the goal of providing an education for all of its children .
From Candlelight Club
More school , less pay
Engineering graduates of Illinois Institute of Technology are reported receiving the highest average starting salaries in the school's history -- $550 a month .
My son , who has completed two years in engineering school , has a summer job on a construction project as an unskilled laborer .
Ironic , is it not , that after completing years of costly scientific training he will receive a cut in pay from what he is receiving as an ordinary unskilled laborer ? ?
The Dupont case
The editorial concerned legislative proposals to ease the tax burden on DuPont stockholders , in connection with the United States Supreme Court ruling that DuPont must divest itself of its extensive General Motors stock holdings .
Congressman Wilbur D. Mills , chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee , asked the Department of Justice for its views on these legislative proposals as they related to anti-trust law enforcement .
In this letter , Mr. Kennedy made it clear that he limited his comment only to one consideration -- what effect the legislative proposals might have on future anti-trust judgments .
Yet your editorial said : `` Now the Attorney General writes that no considerations ' justify any loss of revenue of this proportion ' '' .
The editorial , by omitting the words anti-trust enforcement , totally distorted Mr. Kennedy's views .
Congresswoman Church
But when you write to Congresswoman Church , bless her heart , your letter is answered fully and completely .
I think we have the hardest working , best representative in Congress .
Harmful drinks
They do our country great harm by such actions .
The plane should have started at the scheduled time and left Sinatra and Martin to guzzle .
Toward socialism
In order to attract new industries , 15 states or more are issuing tax free bonds to build government owned plants which are leased to private enterprise .
Issuing bonds for plant construction has brought new industries to certain regions .
`` Workers of the party ''
Being ethical and professional people interested in community health and well-being , we felt this wasn't a function of our position .
To our knowledge no nurse in our agency has been employed because of political affiliation .
This is our duty -- not as nurses or city employes -- but as citizens of the United States .
`` Plus-one '' shelters
Community shelters are , of course , necessary for those having no space for shelter .
In designing his home fallout shelter there is nothing to prevent a man from planning to shelter that home's occupants , `` plus-one '' -- so he will be able to take in a stranger .
Escape
It is the only method left for a man to escape from a woman's world .
Supports Katanga
In the United Nations Charter , the right of self-determination is also an essential principle .
The United States and the U.N. denounce their own principles when they defend the Communist oppressors and refuse to acknowledge the right of self-determination of the Katangans .
County college costs
The bill which passed the Assembly last May and is now pending in the Senate should be given careful scrutiny .
Under the proposal the members of the board of trustees of a county college will be appointed ; ;
The approval of only three members of the board of school estimate is required to certify the amount of money to be allotted to the college .
Taxing improvements
Change our taxing law so that no tax shall be charged to any owner for additions or improvements to his properties .
`` Natural causes ''
I once heard a comedian say that if you are killed by a taxicab in New York , it is listed as `` death due to natural causes '' .
Praises exhibit
It is a revelation of what has been done , what is being done and what will be done in Newark as shown by architects' plans , models and pictures .
It should also make him desire to participate actively in civic , school and religious life of the community so that that phase of Newark will live up to the challenge presented by this exhibit .
Parkway courtesy
`` Deep Peep Show ''
This is a black swamp clay in which about one hundred million years ago cypress-like trees were growing .
In the clay are entombed millions of pollen grains and spores which came from plants growing in the region at the time .
The 15th Street deposit is not to be confused with the nearby famous Mayflower Hotel cypress swamp on 17th Street reported in The Washington Post , August 2 , 1955 , which was probably formed during the second interglacial period and is therefore much younger .
Working for peace
He said , `` Let's work for peace instead of protection from aggression '' .
As to protection , the speaker disapproved of shelters , pointing out that fallout shelters would not save everyone .
The speaker suggested that the desolation of a post-attack world would be too awful to face .
Lastly , the speaker decried our organized program of emergency help calling it `` Civilian Defense '' .
Far from creating fear , as the speaker suggests , preparedness -- knowing what to do in an emergency -- gives people confidence .
Pets in apartments
I grant that the dog may not be really protective , based on his training , but if you were roaming the streets looking for a purse to snatch or a young lady to molest , how quick would you be to attack a person strolling with a dog ? ?
Sidewalk cafes
Perhaps the idea of sidewalk cafes could be extended .
Sen. Hubert Humphrey is obviously a man with a soul and heart .
Dissenting views of senators
For a neutral Germany
President Kennedy was right when he said , `` We shall never negotiate out of fear and we never shall fear to negotiate '' .
We should stand firmly and courageously for our right to free access into Berlin .
If the Communists are sincere in wanting a united , neutral and disarmed Germany , it might well be advantageous for the German people in this nuclear age .
President Kennedy has urged a peace race on disarmament that might be called `` Operation Survival '' which has many facets .
Meeting U.N. obligations
I would like to quote from the Charter of the United Nations :
`` Article 17 , Section 1 : :
`` Section 2 : :
`` Article 19 : :
The U.S.S.R. and her followers are careful in paying their obligations to the regular budget .
According to the official interpretation of the Charter , a member cannot be penalized by not having the right to vote in the General Assembly for nonpayment of financial obligations to the `` special '' United Nations' budgets , and of course cannot be expelled from the Organization ( which you suggested in your editorial ) , due to the fact that there is no provision in the Charter for expulsion .
To aid international law
The Connally amendment says that the United States , rather than the court , shall determine whether a matter is essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of the United States in a case before the World Court to which the United States is a party .
Since the Connally amendment has the effect of giving the same right to the other party to a dispute with the United States , it also prevents us from using the court effectively .
Our `` destiny '' in these perilous times should be to lead strongly in the pursuit of peace , with justice , under law .
What better affirmative step could be taken to this end than repeal of the Connally amendment -- an act which could expose the United States to no practical risk yet would put an end to our self-judging attitude toward the court , enable us to utilize it , and advance in a tangible way the cause of international law and order ? ?
We believe that the list of vital things left undone to date by the Eighty-seventh Congress should have included repeal by the Senate of the Connally amendment .
For better subway services
The Transit Authority has recently placed in operation `` hold '' lights at BMT Thirty-ninth and Fifty-ninth Street stations in Brooklyn .
Phone service criticized
In the last few years the telephone company has managed to automate many areas of their service .
However , there are still several types of calls that necessitate the use of telephone operators .
Fair-priced funeral
Helping retarded children
Hazel Park donates its recreation center , five days a week , to the school .
There are 70 children there and the mothers donate one day a week to the school .
Enough trading stamps were collected to buy a 12-passenger station wagon .
The school is located at 9-1/2 Mile Road , Woodward Heights .
Jobs for Cavanagh
He should put the police back to patrolling and walking the streets at night .
Our litterbug ordinances are not enforced and I have yet to read of a conviction in a littering case .
Drunken truck drivers in the city departments should be weeded out .
Church finds news features are helpful
Some members of the organization called attention also to the article on hymns of inspiration , the Daily Prayer and Three Minutes A Day , as being very helpful .
We feel that The Detroit News is to be complimented upon arranging for articles on these subjects and we hope that it will continue to provide material along wholesome lines .
Rude youngsters
How old do you have to be to remember when Americans , especially children , were encouraged to be polite ? ?
How can we old-fashioned parents , who still feel that adults are due some respect from children , battle the new type of advertising that appears on TV without denying the children the use of television entirely ? ?
Dunes park advocate
Ghost town ? ?
To the editor of the Inquirer :
Defends big trucks
Mr. George Hough ( Oct. 30 ) sounds like a business man who waits until the last minute to leave his home or shop .
Out of school at 14
Two wrongs
As I see it , if war starts and we survive the initial attack enough to be able to fight back , the nuclear weapons we now have -- at least the bombs -- can inflict all the demage that is necessary .
' we tremble not '
Especially the first half of the third verse :
out of the race
Having led the world in this mad race I pray that we may have the wisdom and courage to lead it out of the race .
Are we to be the master of the atom , or will the atom be our master -- and destroy us ! !
Why trust Jagan ? ?
To the editor of the Inquirer :
Russia and U.N.
Russia has showed its intentions by exploding bombs in peace time to try to frighten the world .
Belated tribute
According to one report , however , Mr. Hammarskjold was considered `` too controversial '' a figure to warrant bestowal of the coveted honor last spring .
At Khrushchev's door , therefore , can be placed the primary blame but also at fault are those who permitted themselves to be intimidated .
' people to people '
P.S. .
Expressway answer : East River Drive
One of the problems associated with the expressway stems from the basic idea .
This can be accomplished by several logical steps : ( 1 )
Shadow over Washington Square
Take away George Washington's statue .
Replace it with the statue of one or another of the world's famous dictators .
There's no sense in being reminded of times that were .
The Fairmount Park Commission will no doubt approve my two proposals , because it is responsible for the change of ideological atmosphere in the Square .
The Feeding of Birds is Prohibited in This square .
Fairmount Park Commission
Does each tentacle of the octopus of City Government reach out and lash at whatever it dislikes or considers an annoyance ? ?
The whole official City apparently has an intense hatred toward birds .
The City Government is not united in an all-out , to-the-death drive to stamp out gangs , delinquents , thugs , murderers , rapists , subversives .
Of course , in this small way of forcing the people to watch as tiny and innocent and dependent creatures die because we're afraid to feed them and afraid to protest and say , `` How come ? ?
One means to help the birds occurs to me : Let the chimes that ring over Washington Square twice daily , discontinue any piece of music but one .
not push-ups but stand-ups
When we become firm enough to stand for those ideals which we know to be right , when we become hard enough to refuse to aid nations which do not permit self-determination , when we become strong enough to resist any more drifts towards socialism in our own Nation , when we recognize that our enemy is Communism not war , and when we realize that concessions to Communists do not insure peace or freedom , then , and only then will we no longer be `` soft '' .
Disputes Stans column business scandal views
The area most prominently commented on during the McClellan hearings had to do with `` sweetheart contracts '' .
Further , it should be recalled that some very definite steps were taken by Congress to combat corruption in the labor movement by its passage of the Landrum-Griffin Act .
Escalation unto death
What is needed , Philip Morrison writes in The Cornell Daily Sun ( October 26 ) is a discontinuity .
Morrison points out that since our country is more urbanized than the Soviet Union or Red China , it is the most vulnerable of the great powers -- Europe of course must be written off out of hand .
Capable as their minds may be in some directions , these guardians of the nation's security are incapable of learning , or even of observing .
Khrushchev himself is reported to be concerned by the surge of animosity he has aroused , yet our own nuclear statesmen seem intent on following compulsively in his footsteps .
The tide turns
R. H. S. Crossman , M.P. , writing in The Manchester Guardian , states that departures from West Berlin are now running at the rate not of 700 , but of 1,700 a week , and applications to leave have risen to 1,900 a week .
Another piece of evidence appears in a dispatch from Bonn in The Observer ( London ) .
The handwriting is on the wall .
Vacancy
Contemplating these posthumous punishments , Stalin should not lose all hope .
U Thant of Burma
U Thant of course , will hold office until the spring of 1963 , when Mr. Hammarskjold's term would have come to an end .
To the hills , girls
This may be opera bouffe now , but it will become more serious should the cold war mount in frenzy .
All false gods resemble Moloch , at least in the early phases of their careers , so it would be unreasonable to expect any form of idol-worship to become widespread without the accompaniment of human sacrifice .
No other popular idol is accorded even that much grace .
Yet it is plainly time to make a start , and to be effective the first move should be highly dramatic , without being fanatical .
Then let the whole lot be hanged in a public mass execution on July 4 , 1963 .
Independence Day is the appropriate date as a symbolical reminder of the American article of faith that governments are instituted among men to secure to them certain inalienable rights , the first of which is life , and when any government becomes subversive of that end , it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it .
Hanging the responsible officials would not abolish the government , but would emphasize its accountability for the lives of its individual citizens , which would certainly alter it , and definitely for the better .
True , the adherents of staying put are now reduced to a minor , even a miniscule sect , and their credo , `` Home-keeping hearts are happiest '' , is as disreputable as Socinianism .
In any event , the yearly sacrifice of 40,000 victims is a hecatomb too large to be justified by the most ardent faith .
On October 19 , after the Soviets had detonated at least 20 nuclear devices , Ambassador Stevenson warned the UN General Assembly that this country , in `` self protection '' , might have to resume above-ground tests .
All of which makes it more imperative than ever that the biological and genetic effects of fallout be understood .
Having hedged its bets in this way , PHS apparently decided it would be possible to make some sort of determination after all : `` At present radiation levels , and even at somewhat higher levels , the additional risk is slight and very few people will be affected '' .
Dr. Linus Pauling , a Nobel Prize winner in chemistry , has been less ambiguous , whether you choose to agree with him or not .
The damage to human germ plasm would be such that in the next few generations 160,000 children around the world would be born with gross physical or mental defects .
The lack of scientific unanimity on the effects of radiation is due in part to insufficient data covering large population groups , from which agreed-on generalizations could be drawn .
To this day the Atomic Energy Commission shies away from discussing the health aspects of fallout .
Now , of course , that the Russians are the nuclear villains , radiation is a nastier word than it was in the mid , when the US was testing in the atmosphere .
How much fallout will we get ? ?
As of October 25 , the AEC had reported 24 shots in the new Soviet series , 12 of them in a megaton range , including a super bomb with a yield of 30 to 50 megatons ( the equivalent of 30 million to 50 million tons of TNT ) ; ;
Assuming the lower figure for the big blast and one shot estimated by the Japanese at 10 megatons , a conservative computation is that the 24 announced tests produced a total yield of at least 60 megatons .
If the new Soviet series has followed the general pattern of previous Russian tests , the shots were roughly half fission and half fusion , meaning a fission yield of 30 to 40 megatons thus far .
Resuming atmospheric tests
When this second dilemma first became obvious -- during the mid to late '50's -- the United States appeared to have three choices .
With the resumption of Soviet testing and their intransigence at the Geneva talks , however , the hope that this third choice would prove viable has been shaken .
The first choice , abandoning tests entirely , would not only be unpopular domestically , but would surely be exploited by the Russians .
We take the position , however , that the third choice still remains the only sane one open to us .
Leaving aside the choice of unilateral cessation of tests as neither sane nor clearly moral , the question must arise as to why resumption of atmospheric tests on our part would not be a good choice .
Speaking recently in Miami , Governor Rockefeller said that `` to assure the sufficiency of our own weapons in the face of the recent Soviet tests , we are now clearly compelled to conduct our own nuclear tests '' .
What was missing in the Governor's argument , as in so many similar arguments , was a premise which would enable one to make the ethical leap from what might be militarily desirable to what is right .
Besides the lack of an adequate ethical dimension to the Governor's case , one can ask seriously whether our lead over the Russians in quality and quantity of nuclear weapons is so slight as to make the tests absolutely necessary .
It is perfectly conceivable that a resumption of atmospheric tests may , at some point in the future , be necessary and even justifiable .
Too often in the past Russian tactics have been used to justify like tactics on our part .
Ecumenical hopes
As it has turned out , however , the excessive enthusiasm in the first instance and the loss of hope in the second were both wrong responses .
First of all , it is now known that Pope John sees the renewal and purification of the Church as an absolutely necessary step toward Christian unity .
Secondly , a whole series of addresses and actions by the Pope and by others show that concern for Christian unity is still very much alive and growing within the Church .
Augustin Cardinal Bea , the director of the Secretariate for Christian Unity , has expressed as directly as anyone the new spirit that pervades the Church's stance toward the Protestant and Orthodox Churches .
The budget deficit
We sympathize with Mr. Kennedy , but we feel bound to say that his budget review doesn't please us either , although for very different reasons .
In the first place , a large part of the discrepancy between President Eisenhower's estimate of a 1.5 billion dollar surplus for the same period and the new estimate of an almost seven billion dollar deficit is the result of the outgoing President's farewell gift of a political booby-trap to his successor .
The rest of the deficit is also easily understood .
Our complaint is that in many crucial areas the Kennedy programs are not too large but too small , most seriously in regard to the conventional arms build-up and in aid and welfare measures .
Ethics and peace
Several effects were immediately evident .
In the earlier sessions there was plentiful discussion on the natural law , which Dr. William V. O'Brien of Georgetown University , advanced as the basis for widely acceptable ethical judgments on foreign policy .
Another question that arose was the nature of the dialogue itself .
One effect of the spirited give-and-take of these discussions was to focus attention on practical applications and the necessity of being armed with the facts : knowledge of the destructive force of even the tiniest `` tactical '' atomic weapon would have a bearing on judgments as to the advisability of its use -- to defend Berlin , for example ; ;
Everywhere I went in Formosa I asked the same question .
He smiled .
I answered the routine question about my itinerary , rather coolly .
Fair enough .
Even so , it adds up to impossible odds , except that the question arises , On whose side would the Mainland Chinese army fight ? ?
The miserable people of China , the largest cast ever conscripted to enact an ideological passion play , cannot themselves resist overtly .
But there must be a catalytic pressure .
The second mistake is Tibet .
These continuing pressures , social , economic and military , are doing much to keep China in a heightening state of tension .
The planners in Taiwan struck me as realistic men .
A truth-revealing crisis erupted in Katanga for a couple of days this month , to be quickly smothered by the high pressure verbal fog that is kept on tap for such emergencies .
The measure was instantly taken , as always in such cases , of public men at many levels .
Now , everyone knows -- or knew in the week of December 10 -- that something had gone shockingly wrong with American foreign policy .
The moment simultaneously revealed that in the crisis our policy ran counter to that of all our NATO allies , to the entire Western community .
But the key revelation is not new .
What the moments reveal
We can attack Tshombe , but not Gigenza .
We can force Britain and France out of the Suez , but we cannot so much as try to force the Russian tanks back from Budapest .
In the very week of our war against Katanga , we make a $133 million grant to Kwame Nkrumah , who has just declared his solidarity with the Communist bloc , and is busily turning his own country into a totalitarian dictatorship .
What explains this uni-directional paralysis ? ?
Key to the puzzles
If we grasp this orientation as a key , our national conduct in all of the events here mentioned becomes intelligible .
Broadway
Of straight dramas , there are All The Way Home , which owes much of its poetic power to the James Agee novel , A Death In The Family ; ;
Among the musicals , Camelot came from T. H. White's The Once And Future King , and novels were the sources of the less than momentous Tenderloin and Do Re Mi .
Originals are not necessarily good and adaptations are not necessarily bad .
The most frequent excuse for the prevalence of unoriginals and tested imports is increasing production expense -- producers cannot afford to take chances .
Nightclubs
That exchange was not only possible but commonplace last week in Manhattan , as more and more New Yorkers were discovering 29th Street and Eighth Avenue , where half a dozen small nightclubs with names like Arabian Nights , Grecian Palace and Egyptian Gardens are the American inpost of belly dancing .
The belly boites , with their papier-mache palm trees or hand-painted Ionic columns , heretofore existed mainly on the patronage of Greek and Turkish families .
If a dancer is good , she suggests purely and superbly the fundamental mechanics of ancestry and progeny -- the continuum of mankind .
When a dancer does well , she provokes a quiet bombardment of dollar bills -- although the Manhattan clubs prohibit the more cosmopolitan practice of slipping the tips into the dancers' costumes .
All over the country , belly clubs have never been bigger , especially in Detroit , Boston and Chicago , and even in small towns ; ;
As the girls come to belly dancing from this and other origins , the melting pot has never bubbled more intriguingly .
Jemela ( surname : Gerby ) , 23 , seems Hong Kong Oriental but has a Spanish father and an Indian mother , was born in America and educated at Holy Cross Academy and Textile High School , says she learned belly dancing at family picnics .
Serene ( Mrs. Wilson ) , 23 , was born in Budapest and raised in Manhattan .
Marlene ( surname : Adamo ) , 25 , a Brazilian divorcee who learned the dance from Arabic friends in Paris , now lives on Manhattan's West Side , is about the best belly dancer working the Casbah , loves it so much that she dances on her day off .
Leila ( Malia Phillips ) , 25 , is a Greenwich Village painter of Persianesque miniatures who has red hair that cascades almost to her ankles .
Gloria ( surname : Ziraldo ) , circa 30 , who was born in Italy and once did `` chorus work '' in Toronto , has been around longer than most of the others , wistfully remembers the old days when `` we used to get the seamen from the ships , you know , with big turtleneck sweaters and handkerchiefs and all .
A short , tormented span
Schiele's paintings are anything but pleasant .
The son of a railway stationmaster , Schiele lived most of his childhood in the drowsy Danubian town of Tulln , 14 miles northwest of Vienna .
For a while his work was influenced deeply by the French impressionists , and by the patterned , mosaic-like paintings of Gustav Klimt , then the dean of Austrian art .
The unabashed sexuality of so many of his paintings was not the only thing that kept the public at bay : his view of the world was one of almost unrelieved tragedy , and it was too much even for morbid-minded Vienna .
The most surprising thing about the Twenty-second Congress of the Soviet Communist Party is that it is surprising -- perhaps quite as much , in its own way , as the Twentieth Congress of 1956 , which ended with that famous `` secret '' report on Stalin .
No doubt , there was still a lot in the Draft Program -- and in Khrushchev's speech -- which left many points obscure .
The Draft Program was interesting in other respects , too .
Over all these fairly awkward problems Khrushchev was to skate rather lightly ; ;
One cannot but wonder whether these doubts about the success of Khrushchev's agricultural policy have not at least something to do with one of the big surprises provided by this Congress -- the obsessive harping on the crimes and misdeeds of the `` anti-party group '' -- Molotov , Malenkov , Kaganovich and others -- including the eighty-year-old Marshal Voroshilov .
But one cannot escape the suspicion that all this non-stop harping on the misdeeds of the long liquidated `` anti-party '' group would be totally unnecessary if there were not , inside the party , some secret but genuine opposition to Khrushchev on vital doctrinal grounds , on the actual methods to be employed in the `` transition to communism '' and , last but not least , on foreign policy .
The whole problem of `` peaceful coexistence and peaceful competition '' with the capitalist world is in the very center of this Congress .
`` Molotov altogether rejects the line of peaceful coexistence , reducing this concept merely to the state of peace or rather , the absence of war at a given moment , and to a denial of the possibility of averting a world war .
One cannot help wondering whether Molotov and the rest of the `` anti-party group '' are not being used as China's whipping-boys by Khrushchev and his faithful followers .
The effect of Chou En-lai's clash with Khrushchev , together with the everlasting attacks on Molotov & Co. , has shifted the whole attention of the world , including that of the Soviet people , from the `` epoch-making '' twenty-year program to the present Soviet-Chinese conflict .
But Albania is merely a symptom of a real malaise between China and Russia .
What does it all add up to ? ?
Perhaps Khrushchev is in a more difficult position than any since 1957 , when the `` anti-party group '' nearly liquidated him .
To the average American , this must sound like an incredible tale from a Saturday night TV movie .
Their national leader , Robert Bolivar DePugh of Norborne , Mo. , says the Minutemen believe that guerrilla tactics are best suited to defeat the Red onslaught .
The maneuvers were held `` in secret '' after a regional seminar for the Minutemen , held in nearby Shiloh , Ill. , had been broken up the previous day by deputy sheriffs , who had arrested regional leader Richard Lauchli of Collinsville , Ill. , and seized four operative weapons , including a Browning machine gun , two Browning automatic rifles and an M-4 rifle .
Undismayed by this contretemps , a small band of the faithful gathered at Lauchli's home at 6:30 A.M. the next day , put on their uniforms , and headed for a farm several miles away .
After a tortuous drive in an open truck and a World War 2 , army jeep down soggy trails , the band arrived at a small clearing squeezed between a long , low ridge and a creek-filled gully .
The Minutemen were instructed in the use of terrain for concealment .
Mrs. DePugh , the mother of five children and an active member of her husband's organization , participated in all the exercises .
There were no `` casualties '' , but the `` guerrillas '' admitted to being `` a little tired '' when the leaders called a halt at 9 A.M. to enable out-of-town members to catch a plane .
Tenure as criterion
Next September , after receiving a degree from Yale's Master of Arts in Teaching Program , I will be teaching somewhere -- that much is guaranteed by the present shortage of mathematics teachers .
It follows that teachers as a group cannot expect any marked salary increases ; ;
Loss of initiative
A brief for the negative
If it is not enough that all of our internationalist One Worlders are advocating that we join this market , I refer you to an article in the New York Times' magazine section ( Nov. 12 , 1961 ) , by Mr. Eric Johnston , entitled `` We Must Join The Common Market '' .
But the solution to this dilemma is not the incorporation of the United States into an Atlantic Community or `` economic empire '' , but merely what libertarians like Henry Hazlitt and Ludwig Von Mises have been arguing for years : an end to government regulations , an end to government competition in industry , and a realistic depreciation allowance for industry .
We welcome this able brief for the negative as part of a many-sided discussion of the Atlantic Common Market which JNR will be continuing in our pages .
-- ed. .
Mental telepathy ? ?
The Peiping Chinese were the only major silver seller in the world markets who stopped selling the metal on Monday morning , November 27 , anticipating by two days the announcement of the U.S. Treasury that the pegged offering price will be removed .
A professor and the army
The possibility of recall into the Army is part of the price that a modern American has to pay for the enviable heritage of liberty which he enjoys .
Mercenary : term of honor ? ?
In news broadcasts I consistently hear the foreign volunteers fighting in the Katanga Army referred to as mercenaries .
Modern postal slogan
The impending death of Pope
`` On trial in Jakarta for having flown for the Indonesian anti-Communist insurgents , U.S. pilot Alan Lawrence Pope boldly told the court that in supporting the freedom fighters , he was actually defending the sovereignty and independence of Indonesia .
Since then nothing has happened to save the life of Pope .
`` U.S. Flier Loses Plea .
As we see , Pope may appeal to President Sukarno , Khrushchev's friend , for clemency .
The Eleanor Roosevelt Tractor Committee acts on behalf of the Cuban freedom fighters .
An analogy
Consider this table : 1 .
Louis 14 , -- Aj .
Regency -- Truman .
Louis 15 , -- Eisenhower .
Louis 16 , -- Kennedy .
And Marie Antoinette -- Jacqueline Bouvier .
French Revolution -- Conservative Revolution ? ?
Truly , that Liberals should choose Louis 14 , as a bogey-symbol of conservatism is grotesquely ironic , considering the Louis 14 , character of their Grand Monarque , FDR : not only in his accretion of absolute power and personal deification , ( le roi gouverne par lui meme ) , but in the disastrous effects of his spending and war policies .
In defeating `` Louis Capet '' , John Tower's victory in Texas signals , once again , the end of the divine right of Liberalism .
Confrontation
Thank you for the illustrated editorial `` Confrontation '' .
N.C. has said something important so well that this preacher will many times be tempted to quote the whole piece .
I feel that N.C. hit the very core of our existence in the editorial `` Confrontation '' .
`` Confrontation '' should fortify us all , whether in Southeast Asia or the U.S. .
Congratulations to N.C. for successfully delving into the heart of the problems that face the Peace Corps .
The editorial `` Confrontation '' was certainly direct in its appeal to those of us living here in America .
N.C.'s editorial `` Confrontation '' is a stunning piece of writing .
Editor's note : Reprints of `` Confrontation '' will be included among the material to be distributed to members of the Peace Corps .
Improper Bostonian ? ?
F. L. Lucas's article in SR's April 1 issue seemed to be a very fair and objective analysis of the New English Bible .
Facts in focus
We don't need this type of protection any more .
The accepted method of writing news has two major liabilities .
It seems to me the time has come for the American press to start experimenting with ways of reporting the news that will do a better job of communicating and will be less subject to abuse by those who have learned how to manipulate the present stereotype to serve their own ends .
Southern California blackout
To begin with , the all-powerful Los Angeles Times does not publish a transcript of these press conferences .
Next , because of the time differential , the conferences come on the networks during the middle of the day .
The radio stations did run `` transcripts '' ( I thought ) during the evening hours .
I don't know if this is the situation in other parts of the country ; ;
Can you bring the networks' attention to this ? ?
For a college of propaganda
In my estimation , we definitely do ; ;
During the war , we set up schools for the teaching of psychological warfare , which included the teaching of propaganda , both black and white and the various shades of grey in between .
Four of us here in the United States attended , first as students , then as instructors , almost every one of these schools , in England , Canada , and the United States .
When the end did come , and the schools were disbanded and abandoned , we felt and hoped that the machinery of psychological warfare would not be allowed to rust .
Congratulations on the article `` Do We Need A College Of Propaganda '' ? ?
Let the media clean house , too
Snow storm
Whether in his forthcoming book C. P. Snow commits the errors of judgment and of fact with which your heavily autobiographical critic charged him is important .
Editor's note : Sir Robert Watson-Watt wrote , on page 50 of SR Research for 4 March 1961 : :
Watson-Watt's remarks in SR did not then , constitute a review of the book but a rebuttal to the Godkin Lectures .
Sir Robert Watson-Watt's `` rebuttal '' of Sir Charles Snow's Godkin Lectures is marred throughout by too forceful a desire to defend Lindemann and apparently himself from Sir Charles' supposed falsehoods while stating those `` falsehoods '' in an unclear incoherent argument .
The article presents the reader with an absurdity at its beginning .
It submits an enthusiastic , impressionistic conception of Lindemann contributing another aspect of the man , but on no more authoritative basis than Sir Charles' account .
The only fact that holds any weight in the article is the result of the tea party .
I think it was a grave error to print the article at this time .
It is not news that Nathan Milstein is a wizard of the violin .
There was about that song something incandescent , for this Brahms was Milstein at white heat .
That is , when Mr. Milstein thrust straight to the core of the music , sparks flying , bow shredding , violin singing , glittering and sometimes spitting , Mr. Hendl could go along .
The concert opened with another big romantic score , Schumann's Overture to `` Manfred '' , which suffered fate , this time with orchestral thrusts to the Byronic point to keep it afloat .
Bayreuth next summer
Remember how by a series of booking absurdities Chicago missed seeing the Bolshoi Ballet ? ?
Before you let loose a howl saying we announced its coming , not once but several times , indeed we did .
It was all set .
A couple of days later a balletomane told me he had telephoned Allied Arts for ticket information and was told `` the newspapers had made a mistake '' .
The Kirov Ballet is firmly booked into the Shrine Auditorium , Los Angeles , Nov. 21 thru Dec. 4 .
Queried about the impasse , Allied Arts said : `` Better cancel the Kirov for the time being .
So the Kirov will fly back to Russia , minus a Chicago engagement , a serious loss for dance fans -- and for the frustrated bookers , cancellation of one of the richest bookings in the country .
Will somebody please reopen the Auditorium ? ?
Paintings and drawings by Marie Moore of St. Thomas , Virgin Islands , are shown thru Nov. 5 at the Meadows Gallery , 3211 Ellis Av. , week days , 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. , Sundays 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. , closed Mondays .
An exhibition of Evelyn Cibula's paintings will open with a reception Nov. 5 at the Evanston Community center , 828 Davis St. .
Abstractions and semi-abstractions by Everett McNear are being exhibited by the University Gallery of Notre Dame until Nov. 5 .
In the line of operatic trades to cushion the budget , the Dallas Civic Opera will use San Francisco's new Leni Bauer-Ecsy production of `` Lucia Di Lammermoor '' this season , returning the favor next season when San Francisco uses the Dallas `` Don Giovanni '' , designed by Franco Zeffirelli .
H E. Bates has scribbled a farce called `` Hark , Hark , The Lark '' ! !
If there is a moral lurking among the shenanigans , it is hard to find .
Anyway , a number of them meet here in devastating collisions .
What's up now ? ?
They want to own a junior-grade castle , or a manor house , or some modest little place where Shakespeare might once have staged a pageant for Great Elizabeth and all her bearded courtiers .
They are willing to settle , however , in anything that offers pheasants to shoot at and peasants to work at .
Splendor by sorcery
He suggests that Gore Court embodies all the glories of Tudor splendor .
Larkin has an answer to all that .
It's a wonder , really , to how much mendacious trouble Larkin puts himself to sell the Jerebohms that preposterous manse .
For Larkin is already wonderfully contented with his lot .
And the Jerebohms are more than willing to buy it .
First one , then the other
Mr. Bates shows us how this mutual education spreads its inevitable havoc .
First the Larkins are ahead , then the Jerebohms .
He doesn't think that potting them from a deck chair on the south side of the house with a quart glass of beer for sustenance is entirely sporting .
It is truly odd and ironic that the most handsome and impressive film yet made from Miguel De Cervantes' `` Don Quixote '' is the brilliant Russian spectacle , done in wide screen and color , which opened yesterday at the Fifty-fifth Street and Sixty-eighth Street Playhouses .
More than a beautiful visualization of the illustrious adventures and escapades of the tragi-comic knight-errant and his squire , Sancho Panza , in seventeenth-century Spain , this inevitably abbreviated rendering of the classic satire on chivalry is an affectingly warm and human exposition of character .
Nikolai Cherkasov , the Russian actor who has played such heroic roles as Alexander Nevsky and Ivan the Terrible , performs the lanky Don Quixote , and does so with a simple dignity that bridges the inner nobility and the surface absurdity of this poignant man .
His addle-brained knight-errant , self-appointed to the ridiculous position in an age when armor had already been relegated to museums and the chivalrous code of knight-errantry had become a joke , is , as Cervantes no doubt intended , a gaunt but gracious symbol of good , moving soberly and sincerely in a world of cynics , hypocrites and rogues .
Cherkasov does not caricature him , as some actors have been inclined to do .
The complexities of communication have been considerably abetted in this case by appropriately stilted English language that has been excellently dubbed in place of the Russian dialogue .
Splendid , too , is the performance of Yuri Tolubeyev , one of Russia's leading comedians , as Sancho Panza , the fat , grotesque `` squire '' .
The episode in which Sancho Panza concludes the joke that is played on him when he is facetiously put in command of an `` island '' is one of the best in the film .
True , the pattern and flow of the drama have strong literary qualities that are a bit wearisome in the first half , before Don Quixote goes to the duke's court .
There are other good representations of peasants and people of the court by actors who are finely costumed and magnificently photographed in this last of the Russian films to reach this country in the program of joint cultural exchange .
Also on the bill at the Fifty-fifth Street is a nice ten-minute color film called `` Sunday In Greenwich Village '' , a tour of the haunts and joints .
Television has yet to work out a living arrangement with jazz , which comes to the medium more as an uneasy guest than as a relaxed member of the family .
There seems to be an unfortunate assumption that an hour of Chicago-style jazz in prime evening time , for example , could not be justified without the trimmings of a portentous documentary .
The program came out of the NBC Special Projects department , and was slotted in the Du Pont Show Of The Week series .
As a matter of fact , this latter approach has already been tried , and with pleasing results .
About that same time John Crosby's TV series on the popular arts proved again that giving jazz ample breathing space is one of the most sensible things a producer can do .
`` Chicago And All That Jazz '' could not be faulted on the choice of artists .
Furthermore , Garry Moore makes an ideal master of ceremonies .
One of the script's big problems was how to blend pictures and music of the past with live performances by musicians of today .
However well chosen and cleverly arranged , such memorabilia unfortunately amounted to more of an interruption than an auxiliary to the evening's main business , which ( considering the talent at hand ) should probably have been the gathering of fresh samples of the Chicago style .
Another source of NBC pride was its rare film clip of Bix Beiderbecke , but this view of the great trumpeter flew by so fast that a prolonged wink would have blotted out the entire glimpse .
`` Chicago And All That Jazz '' may have wound up satisfying neither the confirmed fan nor the inquisitive newcomer .
Even Joan Sutherland may not have anticipated the tremendous reception she received from the Metropolitan Opera audience attending her debut as Lucia in Donizetti's `` Lucia Di Lammermoor '' Sunday night .
The crowd staged its own mad scene in salvos of cheers and applause and finally a standing ovation as Miss Sutherland took curtain call after curtain call following a fantastic `` Mad Scene '' created on her own and with the help of the composer and the other performers .
Her entrance in Scene 2 , Act 1 , brought some disconcerting applause even before she had sung a note .
Each high note had the crowd in ecstasy so that it stopped the show midway in the `` Mad Scene '' , but the real reason was a realization of the extraordinary performance unfolding at the moment .
This big , flexible voice with uncommon range has been superbly disciplined .
Technically it was fascinating , aurally spell-binding , and dramatically quite realistic .
The performance also marked the debut of a most promising young conductor , Silvio Varviso .
Richard Tucker sang Edgardo in glorious voice .
Miss Sutherland first sang Lucia at Covent Garden in 1959 .
Anyone for musical Ping-pong ? ?
It's really quite fun -- as long as you like games .
All of the jackets carry a fairly technical and detailed explanation of this new recording program .
London explains that the very distinct directional effect in the Phase 4 series is due in large part to their novel methods of microphoning and recording the music on a number of separate tape channels .
Some clue to the character of London's approach in these discs may be gained immediately from the fact that ten of the 12 titles include the word `` percussion '' or `` percussive '' .
The Percussive Twenties ( SP-44006 ) stirs pleasant memories with well-known songs of that day , and Johnny Keating's Kombo gives forth with tingling jazz in Percussive Moods ( SP-44005 ) .
There is an extraordinary sense of presence in all of these recordings , apparently obtained at least in part by emphasizing the middle and high frequencies .
Many Hollywood films manage somehow to be authentic , but not realistic .
Strange , but true -- authenticity and realism often aren't related at all .
Almost every film bearing the imprimatur of Hollywood is physically authentic -- in fact , impeccably so .
The major studios maintain a cadre of film librarians and research specialists who look to this matter .
But , alas , the authenticity seems to stop at the set's edge .
Thus , in `` The Story Of Ruth '' we have Ruth , Naomi , and Boaz and sets that are meticulously authentic .
And in the new `` King Of Kings '' the plot involves intrigues and twists and turns that cannot be traced to the Gospels .
Earlier this month Edward R. Murrow , director of the United States Information Agency , came to Hollywood and had dinner with more than 100 leaders of the motion picture industry .
He talked about unauthentic storylines too .
`` In many corners of the globe '' , he said , `` the major source of impressions about this country are in the movies they meet .
Francois D'Albert , Hungarian-born violinist who made his New York debut three years ago , played a return engagement last night in Judson Hall .
The acoustics of the small hall had been misgauged by the artists , so that for the first half of the program , when the piano was partially open , Mr. Jenni's playing was too loud .
This was not an overriding drawback to enjoyment of the performances , however , except in the case of the opening work , Mozart's Sonata in A ( K. 526 ) , which clattered along noisily in an unrelieved fashion .
Brahm's Sonata in A , although also vigorous , stood up well under the two artists' strong , large-scale treatment .
A Sonata For Violin And Piano , called `` Bella Bella '' , by Robert Fleming , was given its first United States performance .
Works by Dohnanyi , Hubay , Mr. D'Albert himself and Paganini , indicated that the violinist had some virtuoso fireworks up his sleeve as well as a reserved attitude toward a lyric phrase .
In recent years Anna Xydis has played with the New York Philharmonic and at Lewisohn Stadium , but her program last night at Town Hall was the Greek-born pianist's first New York recital since 1948 .
Miss Xydis has a natural affinity for the keyboard , and in the twenty years since her debut here she has gained the authority and inner assurance that lead to audience control .
Since she also has considerable technical virtuosity and a feeling for music in the romantic tradition , Miss Xydis gave her listeners a good deal of pleasure .
The second half of her program was devoted to Russian composers of this century .
The four Kabalevsky Preludes were also assured , rich in color and songful .
Miss Xydis' earlier selections were Mendelssohn's Variations Serieuses , in which each variation was nicely set off from the others ; ;
All the generals who held important commands in World War 2 , did not write books .
A long book heavily weighted with military technicalities , in this edition it is neither so long nor so technical as it was originally .
William Joseph Slim , First Viscount Slim , former Governor General of Australia , was the principal British commander in the field during the Burma War .
Parts of `` Defeat Into Victory '' are a tangle of Burmese place names and military units , but a little application makes everything clear enough .
Remaking an army to win
Before he could return to Burma , Field Marshal Slim had to rally the defeated remnants of a discouraged army and unite them with fresh recruits .
Other crucial matters required constant supervision : labor and all noncombatant troops , whose morale was vital , too ; ;
Expected of a commander
`` When in doubt as to two courses of action , a general should choose the bolder '' .
`` The commander has failed in his duty if he has not won victory -- for that is his duty '' .
`` It only does harm to talk to troops about new and desirable equipment which others may have but which you cannot give them .
Field Marshal Slim is more impressed by the courage of Japanese soldiers than he is by the ability of their commanders .
Brooding about future wars , the Field Marshal has this to say : `` The Asian fighting man is at least equally brave ( as the white ) , usually more careless of death , less encumbered by mental doubts , less troubled by humanitarian sentiment , and not so moved by slaughter and mutilation around him .
A bunch of young buckaroos from out West , who go by the name of Texas Boys Choir , loped into Town Hall last night and succeeded in corralling the hearts of a sizable audience .
Actually , the program they sang was at least two-thirds serious and high-minded , and they sang it beautifully .
Their singing was well-balanced , clear and , within obvious limitations , extremely pleasing .
But Mr. Bragg is a remarkably gifted conductor , and the results he has produced with his boys are generally superior .
Furthermore , there were solid musical virtues in the interpretation of the music .
A boy soprano named Dixon Boyd sang a Durante solo motet and a few other passages enchantingly .
The final group included folk songs from back home , stomped out , shouted and chanted with irresistible spirit and in cowboy costume .
The Polish song and dance company called Mazowsze , after the region of Poland , where it has its headquarters , opened a three-week engagement at the City Center last night .
Not that it is all funny , by any means , though some of it is definitely so , but simply that the dancers are young and handsome , high-spirited and communicative , and the program itself is as vivacious as it is varied .
The material is all basically of folk origin , gleaned from every section of Poland .
Since the organization was created thirteen years ago , it is obvious that this is not the original company ; ;
To pick out particular numbers is something of a problem , but one or two identifiable items are too conspicuously excellent to be missed .
Everywhere there are little touches of humor , and the leader of the on-stage band of musicians is an ebullient comedian who plays all sorts of odd instruments with winning warmth .
The Theatre-by-the-Sea , Matunuck , presents `` King Of Hearts '' by Jean Kerr and Eleanor Brooke .
Producer John Holmes has chosen a delightful comedy for his season's opener at Matunuck in Jean Kerr's `` King Of Hearts '' .
The dialogue is sharp , witty and candid -- typical `` don't eat the daisies '' material -- which has stamped the author throughout her books and plays , and it was obvious that the Theatre-by-the-Sea audience liked it .
The story is of a famous strip cartoonist , an arty individual , whose specialty is the American boy and who adopts a 10-year-old to provide him with fresh idea material .
This is when his troubles begin , not to mention a fledgling artist who he hires , and who turns out to have ideas of his own , with particular respect to the hero's sweetheart-secretary .
John Heffernan , playing Larry Larkin , the cartoonist , carries the show in marvelous fashion .
This may be unfortunate , perhaps , from the standpoint of David Hedison , Providence's contribution to Hollywood , who is appearing by special arrangement with 20th Century-Fox .
A word should be said for Gary Morgan , a Broadway youngster who , as the adopted son , makes life miserable for nearly everybody and Larkin in particular .
On the whole , audiences will like this performance .
The Newport Playhouse presents `` Epitaph For George Dillon '' by John Osborne and Anthony Creighton , directed by Wallace Gray .
The cast :
The angriest young man in Newport last night was at the Playhouse , where `` Epitaph For George Dillon '' opened as the jazz festival closed .
For the hero of this work by John Osborne and Anthony Creighton is a chap embittered by more than the lack of beer during a jam session .
Furthermore , he's something of a scoundrel , an artist whose mind and feelings are all finger-tips .
It is into this household , one eroded by irritations that have tortured the souls out of its people , that George Dillon enters at the beginning of the play .
An unsuccessful playwright and actor , he has faith only in himself and in a talent he is not sure exists .
Not altogether a successful play , `` Epitaph For George Dillon '' overcomes through sheer vitality and power what in a lesser work might be crippling .
There is a fine second act , as an example , one in which Samuel Groom , as Dillon , has an opportunity to blaze away in one impassioned passage after another .
Just as exciting but in a more technically proficient way is Laura Stuart , whose complete control of her every movement is lovely to watch .
Also fine are Sue Lawless , as a mother more protective and belligerent than a female spider and just as destructive , Harold Cherry , as her scratchy spouse , and Hildy Weissman , as a vegetable in human form .
Wallace Gray has directed a difficult play here , usually well , but with just a bit too much physical movement in the first act for my taste .
The Warwick Musical Theater presents `` Where's Charley ? ?
Everybody fell in love with Amy again last night at the Warwick Musical Theater , and Shelley Berman was to blame .
One of the finest soft shoe tunes ever invented , `` Once In Love With Amy '' is also , of course , one of the most tantalizingly persistent of light love lyrics to come out of American musical comedy in our era .
It is greatly to Berman's credit that he made no attempt to outdo Ray Bolger .
In brief , Berman played himself and not Bolger .
The whole production this week is fresh and lively .
Berman , whose fame has rested in recent years on his skills as a night club monologist , proved himself very much at home in musical comedy .
Sparrow-size Virginia Gibson , with sparkling blue eyes and a cheerful smile , made a suitably perky Amy , while Melisande Congdon , as the real aunt , was positively monumental in the very best Gibson Girl manner .
All told , `` Where's Charley ? ?
The Broadway Theater League of Rhode Island presents C. Edwin Knill's and Martin Tahse's production of `` Fiorello ! !
This is one of the happier events of the season .
The company which performed the Pulitzer Prize musical here last night and will repeat it twice today is full of bounce , the politicians are in fine voice , the chorines evoke happy memories , and the Little Flower rides to break a lance again .
I saw `` Fiorello ! !
Certainly in the matter of principals there is nothing lacking .
Then Rudy Bond was simply grand as Ben , the distraught Republican Party district chieftain .
As for the ladies , they were full of charm , and sincerity , and deep and abiding affection for this hurrying driving , honest , little man .
Such fascinating novelties in the score as the fugual treatment of `` On The Side Of The Angels '' and `` Politics And Poker '' were handled splendidly , and I thought Rudy Bond and his band of tuneful ward-heelers made `` Little Tin Box '' even better than it was done by the New York cast ; ;
The party at Floyd's penthouse gave the `` chorines '' a chance for a nostalgic frolic through all those hackneyed routines which have become a classic choreographic statement of the era's nonsense .
LaGuardia's multi-lingual rallies , when he is running for Congress , are well staged , and wind up in a wild Jewish folk-dance that is really great musical theater .
Martin Tahse has established quite a reputation for himself as a successful stager of touring productions .
It has all been done in superb style , and the result is a show which deserves the support of every person hereabouts who enjoys good musical theater .
Loew's theater presents `` Where The Boys Are '' , an MGM picture produced by Joe Pasternak and directed by Henry Levin from a screenplay by George Wells .
Since the hero , a sterling and upright fellow , is a rich Brown senior , while two Yalies are cast as virtual rapists , I suppose I should disqualify myself from sitting in judgment on `` Where The Boys Are '' , but I shall do nothing of the sort .
Instead -- and not just to prove my objectivity -- I hasten to report that it's a highly amusing film which probably does a fairly accurate job of reporting on the Easter vacation shenanigans of collegians down in Fort Lauderdale , and that it seems to come to grips quite honestly with the moral problem that most commonly vexes youngsters in this age group -- that is to say , sex .
The answers the girls give struck me as reasonably varied and healthily individual .
`` Where The Boys Are '' also has a juvenile bounce that makes for a refreshing venture in comedy .
Most of the female faces are new , or at least not too familiar .
The only performance which was too soft for me was that of Yvette Mimieux , but since someone had to become the victim of despoilers , just to emphasize that such things do happen at these fracases , I suppose this was the attitude the part called for .
To anyone who remembers Newport at its less than maximum violence , this view of what the boys and girls do in the springtime before they wing north for the Jazz Festival ought to prove entertaining .
The second feature , `` The Price Of Silence '' , is a British detective story that will talk your head off .
The superb intellectual and spiritual vitality of William James was never more evident than in his letters .
For this latest addition to the Great Letters Series , under the general editorship of Louis Kronenberger , Miss Hardwick has made a selection which admirably displays the variety of James's genius , not to mention the felicities of his style .
Most of all , his letters to his philosophic colleagues show a magnanimity as well as an honesty which help to explain Whitehead's reference to James as `` that adorable genius '' .
This is a virtue of which we have great need in a society where there seems to be an increasing lack of communication -- or even desire for communication -- between differing schools of thought .
To his Harvard colleague , Josiah Royce , whose philosophic position differed radically from his own , James could write , `` Different as our minds are , yours has nourished mine , as no other social influence ever has , and in converse with you I have always felt that my life was being lived importantly '' .
Of another colleague , George Santayana , he could write : `` The great event in my life recently has been the reading of Santayana's book .
Writing to his colleague George Herbert Palmer -- `` Glorious old Palmer '' , as he addresses him -- James says that if only the students at Harvard could really understand Royce , Santayana , Palmer , and himself and see that their varying systems are `` so many religions , ways of fronting life , and worth fighting for '' , then Harvard would have a genuine philosophic universe .
The `` belaboring '' is of course jocular , yet James was not lacking in fundamental seriousness -- unless we measure him by that ultimate seriousness of the great religious leader or thinker who stakes all on his vision of God .
But there is a dignity and even a hint of the inspired prophet in his words to one correspondent : `` You ask what I am going to ' reply ' to Bradley .
The collected works of James Thurber , now numbering 25 volumes ( including the present exhibit ) represent a high standard of literary excellence , as every schoolboy knows .
The one unifying note , if any , is sounded in the initial article entitled : `` How To Get Through The Day '' .
`` The Tyranny Of Trivia '' suggests arbitrary alphabetical associations to induce slumber .
A burlesque paean entitled : `` Hark The Herald Tribune , Times , And All The Other Angels Sing '' brilliantly succeeds in exaggerating even motion-picture ballyhooey .
A semi-serious literary document entitled `` The Wings Of Henry James '' is noteworthy , if only for a keenly trenchant though little-known comment on the master's difficult later period by modest Owen Wister , author of `` The Virginian '' .
Equally penetrating in its fashion is the following remark by a lady in the course of a literary conversation : `` So much has already been written about everything that you can't find out anything about it '' .
A tribute to midsummer `` bang-sashes '' seems terribly funny , though it would be hard to explain why .
In a sense , perhaps , Thurber is indebted artistically to the surrealist painter ( was it Salvador Dali ? ?
Though no longer able to turn out his protoplasmic pen-and-ink sketches ( several old favorites are scattered through the present volume ) Thurber has retained unimpaired his vision of humor as a thing of simple , unaffected humanness .
The latest Low is a puzzler .
But there is a difference between the present volume and the early Low .
Anyone can draw his own conclusions from this difference .
Do we ourselves offer Mr. Low less of a crusade ? ?
Or does the reason for less Jovian drawings lie elsewhere ? ?
Whatever the cause , his mood in the fifties rarely rises above the level of the capably sardonic .
Stalin's death , Churchill's farewell to public life , Hillary and Tensing on Everest , Quemoy and Matsu -- all subjects for a noble anger or an accolade .
He often drew the bomb .
Look in this book for weak mortals and only on occasion for virtues and vices on the heroic scale .
A gray fox with a patch on one eye -- confidence man , city slicker , lebensraum specialist -- tries to take over Catfish Bend in this third relaxed allegory from Mr. Burman's refreshing Louisiana animal community .
The fox is all ingratiating smiles when he arrives from New Orleans , accompanied by one wharf rat .
As soon as the fox has taken hold on most of the populace he imports more wharf rats , who , of course , say they are the aggrieved victims of an extermination campaign in the city .
Robert Hillyer , the poet , writes in his introduction to this brief animal fable that Mr. Burman ought to win a Nobel Prize for the Catfish Bend series .
In substance they lie somewhere between the Southern dialect animal stories of Joel Chandler Harris ( Uncle Remus ) and the polished , witty fables of James Thurber .
George Kennan's account of relations between Russia and the West from the fall of Tsarism to the end of World War 2 , is the finest piece of diplomatic history that has appeared in many years .
In short , the book , based largely on lectures delivered at Harvard University , is both reliable and readable ; ;
Mr. Kennan takes careful account of every mitigating circumstance in recalling the historical atmosphere in which mistaken decisions were taken .
After all , Alger Hiss , subsequently convicted of perjury in denying that he gave secret State Department documents to Soviet agents , was at Yalta .
It is quite probable , however , that stupidity , inexperience and childish adherence to slogans like `` unconditional surrender '' had more to do with the unsatisfactory settlements at the end of the war than treason or sympathy with Communism .
dashed hope
Recognizing that there could have been no effective negotiated peace with Hitler , he points out the shocking failure to give support to the anti-Nazi underground , which very nearly eliminated Hitler in 1944 .
The hope was vain .
No wonder Khrushchev's first message to President Kennedy was a wistful desire for the return of the `` good old days '' of Roosevelt .
This fascinating story begins with a sketch , rich in personal detail , of the glancing mutual impact of World War 1 , and the two instalments of the Russian Revolution .
As Kennan shows , the judgment of the Allied governments about what was happening in Russia was warped by the obsession of defeating Germany .
`` Had a world war not been in progress , there would never , under any conceivable stretch of the imagination , have been an Allied intervention in North Russia '' .
Plebian dictators
`` This was a man of incredible criminality , of a criminality effectively without limits ; ;
And here is Kennan's image of Hitler , Stalin's temporary collaborator in the subjugation and oppression of weaker peoples , and his later enemy :
`` Behind that Charlie Chaplin moustache and that truant lock of hair that always covered his forehead , behind the tirades and the sulky silences , the passionate orations and the occasional dull evasive stare , behind the prejudices , the cynicism , the total amorality of behavior , behind even the tendency to great strategic mistakes , there lay a statesman of no mean qualities : Shrewd , calculating , in many ways realistic , endowed -- like Stalin -- with considerable powers of dissimulation , capable of playing his cards very close to his chest when he so desired , yet bold and resolute in his decisions , and possessing one gift Stalin did not possess : The ability to rouse men to fever pitch of personal devotion and enthusiasm by the power of the spoken word '' .
Two criticisms of this generally admirable and fascinating book involve the treatment of wartime diplomacy which is jagged at the edges -- there is no mention of the Potsdam Conference or the Morgenthau Plan .
But one should not ask for everything .
This is the tale of one John Enright , an American who has accidentally killed a man in the prize ring and is now trying to forget about it in a quiet place where he may become a quiet man .
Then there is a matchmaker , one Mikeen Flynn , a role for which Eddie Foy was happily selected .
Art Lund , a fine big actor with a great head of blond hair and a good voice , impersonates Enright .
Susan Johnson , as the widow , spends the first half of the play running a bar and singing about the unlamented death of her late husband and the second half trying to acquire a new one .
Then there are a pair of old biddies played by Grace Carney and Sibly Bowan who may be right off the shelf of stock Irish characters , but they put such a combination of good will and malevolence into their parts that they're quite entertaining .
`` Donnybrook '' is no `` Brigadoon '' , but it does have some very nice romantic background touches and some excellent dancing .
The men of Innesfree are got up authentically in cloth caps and sweaters , and their dancing and singing is fine .
Rouben Ter-Arutunian , in his stage settings , often uses the scrim curtain behind which Mr. Cole has placed couples or groups who sing and set the mood for the scenes which are to follow .
We can all breathe more easily this morning -- more easily and joyously , too -- because Joshua Logan has turned the stage show , `` Fanny '' , into a delightful and heart-warming film .
The task of taking the raw material of Marcel Pagnol's original trio of French films about people of the waterfront in Marseilles and putting them again on the screen , after their passage through the Broadway musical idiom , was a delicate and perilous one , indeed .
But now the task is completed and the uncertainty resolved with the opening of the English-dialogue picture at the Music Hall yesterday .
Some of the New York Philharmonic musicians who live in the suburbs spent yesterday morning digging themselves free from snow .
It was an excellent concert .
The Franck symphonic poem , `` Psyche '' , is a lush , sweet-sounding affair that was pleasant to encounter once again .
Mr. Paray resisted the temptation to over-emphasize the melodic elements of the score .
And in the Prokofieff C major Piano Concerto , with Zadel Skolovsky as soloist , he was an admirable partner .
An impressive technician , Mr. Skolovsky has fine rhythm , to boot .
Taken as a whole , though , it was a strong performance from both pianist and orchestra .
A new work on the program was Nikolai Lopatnikoff's `` Festival Overture '' , receiving its first New York hearing .
`` La Gioconda '' , like it or not , is a singer's opera .
So the plot creaks , the sets are decaying , the costumes are pre-historic , the orchestra was sloppy and not very well connected with what the singers were doing .
One of those parts is that of evil , evil Barnaba , the spy .
He has the temperament and the stage presence for a rousing villain and he sang with character and strong tone .
Regina Resnik as Laura and Cesare Siepi as Alvise also were new to the cast , but only with respect to this season ; ;
Mr. Siepi was , as always , a consummate actor ; ;
Eileen Farrell in the title role , Mignon Dunn as La Cieca and Richard Tucker as Enzo were holdovers from earlier performances this season , and all contributed to a vigorous performance .
`` Melodious birds sing madrigals '' saith the poet and no better description of the madrigaling of the Deller Consort could be imagined .
Their Vanguard album Madrigal Masterpieces ( BG 609 ; ;
The English have managed to hold onto their madrigal tradition better than anyone else .
Even after Elizabethan traditions were weakened by the Cromwellian interregnum , the practice of singing together -- choruses , catches and glees -- always flourished .
Early interest
Naturally , Mr. Deller and the other singers in his troupe are most charming and elegant when they are squarely in their tradition and singing music by their countrymen : William Byrd , Thomas Morley and Thomas Tomkins .
Claude Jannequin's vocal description of a battle ( the French equivalents of tarantara , rum-tum-tum , and boom-boom-boom are very picturesque ) is lots of fun , and the singers get a sense of grace and shape into other chansons by Jannequin and Lassus .
Nevertheless , the musicality , accuracy and infectious charm of these performances , excellently reproduced , make it an attractive look-see at the period .
Elegance and color
Couperin and Rameau gave titles to nearly everything they wrote , not in the later sense of `` program music '' but as a kind of nonmusical reference for the close , clear musical forms filled with keen wit and precise utterance .
Both composers turn up on new imports from France .
The Concerts -- nos. 2 , 6 , 9 , 10 and 14 are represented -- are really closer to chamber suites than to concertos in the Italian sense .
Couperin also turns up along with some lesser-known contemporaries on a disk called Musique Francaise Du 18e Siecle ( BAM LD 060 ) .
The Couperin `` La Steinkerque '' , with its battle music , brevity , wit and refined simplicity , already shakes off Corelli and points towards the mid-century elegances that ended the baroque era .
All these records have close , attractive sound and the performances by a variety of instrumentalists is characteristic .
Rameau's Six Concerts En Sextuor , recorded by L'orchestre De Chambre Pierre Menet ( BAM LD 046 ) , turn out to be harpsichord pieces arranged for strings apparently by the composer himself .
Maitres Allemands Des 17e et 18e Siecles contains music by Pachelbel , Buxtehude , Rosenmueller and Telemann , well performed by the Ensemble Instrumental Sylvie Spycket ( BAM LD 035 ) .
Rococo music -- a lot of it -- was played in Carnegie Recital Hall on Saturday night in the first of four concerts being sponsored this season by a new organization known as Globe Concert Arts .
Works by J. C. Bach , Anton Craft , Joseph Haydn , Giuseppe Sammartini , Comenico Dragonetti and J. G. Janitsch were performed by seven instrumentalists including Anabel Brieff , flutist , Josef Marx , oboist , and Robert Conant , pianist and harpsichordist .
Since rococo music tends to be pretty and elegant above all , it can seem rather vacuous to twentieth-century ears that have grown accustomed to the stress and dissonances of composers from Beethoven to Boulez .
Thus there was really an excess of eighteenth-century charm as one of these light-weight pieces followed another on Saturday night .
The performances were variable , those of the full ensemble being generally satisfying , some by soloists proving rather trying .
Ellie Mao , soprano , and Frederick Fuller , baritone , presented a program of folksongs entitled `` East Meets West '' in Carnegie Recital Hall last night .
Selections from fifteen countries were sung as solos and duets in a broad range of languages .
This was not a program intended to illustrate authentic folk styles .
What was omitted from `` A Neglected Education '' were those essentials known as `` the facts of life '' .
Chabrier's little one-act operetta , presented yesterday afternoon at Town Hall , is a fragile , precious little piece , very French , not without wit and charm .
It all takes place in the eighteenth century .
Chabrier's delightful music stands just at the point where the classical , rationalist tradition , ( handed down to Chabrier largely in the form of operetta and salon music ) becomes virtually neo-classicism .
The simple , clever production was also able to tread the thin line between those extremes .
The work was presented as the final event in the Town Hall Festival of Music .
With the exception of a few spots , Milhaud's music mostly churns away with his usual collection of ditties , odd harmonies , and lumbering , satiric orchestration .
Had a funny experience at Newport yesterday afternoon .
I make this observation about the lady , Miss Judy Garland , because she brought up the subject herself in telling a story about a British female reporter who flattered her terribly in London recently and then wrote in the paper the next day :
`` Judy Garland has arrived in London .
But who cares , when the lady sings ? ?
And Judy sang the lovely old familiar things which seemed , at times , a blessed relief from the way-out compositions of the progressive jazzmen who have dominated these proceedings .
Miss Garland is not only one of the great singers of our time but she is one of the superb showmen .
Along about 4:30 , just when it was getting to be about time to turn the audience over and toast them on the other side , Judy came on singing , in a short-skirted blue dress with a blue and white jacket that flapped in the wind .
In her first song she waved away one encroaching photographer who dared approach the throne unbidden and thereafter the boys with the cameras had to unsheathe their 300 mm. lenses and shoot at extreme range .
There also came a brief contretemps with the sound mixers who made the mistake of being overheard during a quiet moment near the conclusion of `` Do It Again '' , and she made the tart observation that `` I never saw so much moving about in an audience '' .
But it didn't take Judy Garland , showman , long to realize that this sort of thing was par for the course at Newport and that you have to learn to live with it .
And time after time she really belted out her songs .
To her partisan audience , such picayune haggling would have seemed nothing more than a critic striving to hold his franchise ; ;
They were rewarded with splendid , exciting , singing .
The audience wouldn't let her leave until it had heard `` Over The Rainbow '' -- although the fellow that kept crying for `` Get Happy '' had to go home unhappy , about that item anyway .
All went home happy except the Newport police , who feared that the throng departing at 6:35 might meet head-on the night crowd drawing nigh , and those deprived of their happy hour at the cocktail bar .
In Newport last night there were flashes of distant lightning in the northern skies .
Several times it came near breaking , and there were in fact some lovely peals of thunder from Jerry Mulligan's big band , which is about as fine an aggregation as has come along in the jazz business since John Hammond found Count Basie working in a Kansas City trap .
Mulligan's band has been infected with his solid sense of swing , and what it does seems far more meaningful than most of the noise generated by the big concert aggregations .
But what is equally impressive is the delicacy and wonderful lyric quality of both the band and Mulligan's baritone sax in a fragile ballad like Bob Brookmeyer's arrangement of `` Django's Castle '' .
For subtle swinging rhythms , I could admire intensely Mulligan's version of `` Weep '' , and the fireworks went on display in `` 18 Carrots For Robert '' , a sax tribute to Johnny Hodges .
There was considerable contrast between this Mulligan performance and that of Art Blakey and The Jazz Messengers , who are able to generate a tremendous sound for such a small group .
What we did get , however , was impressive .
A few drops of rain just before midnight , when Sarah Vaughan was in the midst of her first number , scattered the more timid members of the audience briefly , but at this hour and with Sarah on the stand , most of the listeners didn't care whether they got wet .
Miss Vaughan was back in top form , somehow mellowed and improved with the passage of time -- like a fine wine .
Jazz Three open program
Putting on local musicians at this place in the program serves a triple purpose : it saves the top flight jazz men from being wasted in this unenviable spot , when the audience is cold , restless , and in flux ; ;
The Jazz Three displayed their sound musicianship , not only in their own chosen set , but as the emergency accompanists for Al Minns & Leon James , the superb jazz dancers who have now been Newport performers for three successive years , gradually moving up from a morning seminar on the evolution of the blues to a spot on the evening program .
Julie Wilson sings
From this taste of the 1920s , we leaped way out to Stan Getz's private brand of progressive jazz , which did lovely , subtle things for `` Baubles , Bangles And Beads '' , and a couple of ballards .
Getz is a difficult musician to categorize .
Shearing takes over
A very casual , pleasant program -- one of those easy-going things that make Newport's afternoon programs such a relaxing delight -- was held again under sunny skies , hot sun , and a fresh breeze for an audience of at least a couple of thousands who came to Newport to hear music rather than go to the beach .
Divided almost equally into two parts , it consisted of `` The Evolution Of The Blues '' , narrated by Jon Hendricks , who had presented it last year at the Monterey , Calif. , Jazz Festival , and an hour-long session of Maynard Ferguson and his orchestra , a blasting big band .
Hendricks' story was designed for children and he had a small audience of small children right on stage with him .
Surprise addition
One of those delightful surprise additions , which so frequently occur in jazz programs , was an excellent stint at the drums by the great Joe Jones , drumming to `` Old Man River '' , which seems to have been elected the favorite solo for the boys on the batterie at this year's concerts .
Demonstrating the primitive African rhythmic backgrounds of the Blues was Michael Babatunde Olatunji , who plays such native drums as the konga and even does a resounding job slapping his own chest .
Hendricks had Billy Mitchell , tenor sax ; ;
It all went very well .
Pianists who are serious about their work are likely to know the interesting material contained in Schubert's Sonatas .
The male chorus of the Robert Shaw Chorale sings Sea Shanties in fine style .
The London label offers an operatic recital by Ettore Bastianini , a baritone whose fame is international .
Murray Louis and his dance company appeared at the Henry Street Playhouse on Friday and Saturday evenings and Sunday afternoons in the premiere of his latest work , `` Signal '' , and the repetition of an earlier one , `` Journal '' .
`` Signal '' is choreographed for three male dancers to an electronic score by Alwin Nikolais .
`` Take hands ; ;
Here , as in `` Journal '' , Mr. Louis has given himself the lion's share of the dancing , and there is no doubt that he is capable of conceiving and executing a wide variety of difficult and arresting physical movements .
But chains of movements are not necessarily communicative , and it is in the realm of communication that the works prove disappointing .
It may be , of course , that Mr. Louis is consciously trying to create works that anticipate an age of total automation .
' an American journey '
Eugene Lester assembled a witty and explicit score for `` An American Journey '' , and Malcolm McCormick gave it sprightly imaginative costumes .
Mr. Nagrin has described four `` places '' , each with its scenery and people , added two `` diversions '' , and concluded with `` A Toccata for the Young '' , a refreshingly underplayed interpretation of rock'n'roll dancing .
The `` places '' could be anywhere , the idiosyncrasies and foibles observed there could be anybody's , and the laugh is on us all .
Miss Tamiris' `` Once Upon A Time '' is a problem piece about a man and a woman and the three `` figures '' that bother them somehow .
Unfortunately , the man and woman were not made to appear very interesting at the outset and the menacing figures failed to make them any more so .
All the performances of the evening were smooth and assured , and the sizable company , with Mr. Nagrin and Marion Scott as its leading dancers , seemed to be fine shape .
The Symphony Of The Air , greatly assisted by Van Cliburn , last night got its seven-concert Beethoven cycle at Carnegie Hall off to a good start .
This news , announced by Jerome Toobin , the orchestra's administrative director , brought applause from the 2,800 persons who filled the hall .
This season the orchestra has already taken a step toward the suburbs in that it is giving six subscription concerts for the Orchestral Society of Westchester in the County Center in White Plains .
The concertos that Van Cliburn has been associated with in New York since his triumphant return from Russia in 1958 have been the Tchaikovsky , the Rachmaninoff Third , and the Prokofieff Third .
The young Texas pianist can make great chords ring out as well as anyone , so last night the massive sonorities of this challenging concerto were no hazard to him .
Mr. Cliburn gave the slow movement some of the quality of a Chopin Nocturne .
Mr. Wallenstein , who will lead all of the concerts in the cycle , also conducted the `` Leonore '' Overture No. 3 and the Fourth Symphony .
There are times when one suspects that the songs that are dropped from musical shows before they reach Broadway may really be better than many of those that are left in .
In the more casually constructed musicals of the Nineteen Twenties and Nineteen Thirties there would seem to have been less reason for eliminating a song of merit .
second chance
Several of these double entries have been collected by Ben Bagley and Michael McWhinney , along with Rodgers and Hart songs that disappeared permanently en route to New York and others that reached Broadway but have not become part of the constantly heard Rodgers and Hart repertory , in a delightfully refreshing album , Rodgers And Hart Revisited ( Spruce Records , 505 Fifth Avenue , New York ) .
Among the particular gems in this collection is the impudent opening song of `` The Garrick Gaieties '' , an impressive forecast of the wit and melody that were to come from Rodgers and Hart in the years that followed ; ;
Altogether fifteen virtually unknown Rodgers and Hart songs are sung by a quintet of able vocalists .
.
Rudy Vallee , who shares star billing with Mr. Morse , makes only two appearances .
Like Mr. Loesser , Jerry Herman is both composer and lyriist for Milk And Honey ( R. C. A. Victor LOC 1065 ; ;
Resourceful voices
Not content to create only the music and lyrics , Noel Coward also wrote the book and directed Sail Away ( Capitol WAO 1643 ; ;
With three fine Russian films in recent months on World War 2 , -- `` The House I Live In '' , `` The Cranes Are Flying '' and `` Ballad Of A Soldier '' -- we had every right to expect a real Soviet block-buster in `` The Day The War Ended '' .
Make no mistake , this Gorky Studio drama is a respectable import -- aptly grave , carefully written , performed and directed .
Unfortunately , the whole picture hinges on this romance , at the expense of everything else .
Not that the picture is superficial .
Ring Of Bright Water , by Gavin Maxwell .
Only once in a very long while comes a book that gives the reader a magic sense of sharing a rare experience .
`` He has married me with a ring of bright water '' , begins the Kathleen Raine poem from which Maxwell takes his title , and it is this mystic bond between the human and natural world that the author conveys .
But it isn't .
Mij , as his owner was soon to learn , had strange , inexplicable habits .
A year and a day of this idyll is described for the reader , one in which not only discovery of a new world of personality is charted , but self-discovery as well .
Now , with the increasing interdependence between himself and Mij came a knowledge of an obscure need , that of being trusted implicitly by some creature .
Yet the idyll ended .
One is not sure who emerges as the main personality of this book -- Mijbil , with his rollicking ways , or Maxwell himself , poet , portrait painter , writer , journalist , traveller and zoologist , sensitive but never sentimental recorder of an unusual way of life , in a language at once lyrical and forceful , vivid and unabashed .
They serve to contradict a popular notion that the Comedie merely repeats , as accurately as possible , the techniques of acting the classics that prevailed in the 17th century .
Of course , the well-received revivals last longer than the others , and that further reminds us that the Comedie is not insensitive to criticism .
In France , novel approaches to the classic French plays are frequently attempted .
So far as I know , the Comedie has never put Moliere's people in the costumes of the 20th century , but they do reinterpret plays and characters .
The new `` Phedre '' was done in 17th century setting , instead of ancient Greek ; ;
The new `` School For Wives '' was interpreted according to a principle that is becoming increasingly common in the playing of classic comedy -- the idea of turning some obviously ludicrous figure into a tragic character .
Among the Moliere specialists of some years ago , Louis Jouvet tried to humanize some of the clowns , while Fernand Ledoux , often performing at the Comedie , made them more gross than Moliere may have intended .
Apparently , Jouvet and Ledoux attempted just these dissimilar approaches in the role of Arnolphe in `` The School For Wives '' .
Arnolphe , it will be recalled , is a man of mature years who tries to preserve the innocence of his youthful wife-to-be .
Accordingly , at the Comedie last year , Jean Meyer played a sympathetic Arnolphe and drew criticism for turning the comedy into a tragedy .
Wisely , the Comedie has brought Moliere's `` Tartuffe '' on its tour and has left `` The School For Wives '' at home .
Louis Seigner , who formerly played the deluded benefactor opposite Ledoux , is the Tartuffe of the present production , which he himself directed .
Occasionally , Seigner draws some justly deserved laughs by his quick shifts from one personality to another .
Seigner is the dean of the company , the oldest actor in point of continuous service .
In Moliere's farce , `` The Tricks Of Scapin '' , Robert Hirsch undertakes another of the great roles .
To begin with , Scapin is a trickster in the old tradition of the clever servant who plots the strategy of courtship for his master .
Hirsch says that he has given the role certain qualities he has observed in the city toughs of the real world .
Django Reinhardt , the ill-fated gypsy , was a true artist , one who demonstrated conclusively the power of art to renew itself and flow into many channels .
There is hardly a jazz guitarist in the business today who doesn't owe something to Django .
Django , who was born Jean Baptiste Reinhardt in Belgium and who died in 1953 in France , was an extraordinary man .
You can catch up with him -- if you haven't already -- on RCA-Victor's album .
They play : `` Minor Swing '' , `` Honeysuckle Rose '' , `` Beyond The Sea '' , `` Bricktop '' , `` Heavy Artillery '' , `` Djangology '' , `` After You've Gone '' , `` Where Are You , My Love '' ? ?
All this is great proceedings -- get the minutes .
Kid Ory , the trombonist chicken farmer , is also one of the solid anchor points of jazz .
Good Time Jazz has released a nice two-record album which he made .
The set contains `` High Society '' , `` Do What Ory Say '' , `` Down Home Rag '' , `` Careless Love '' , Jazz Me Blues '' , `` Weary Blues '' , `` Original Dixieland One-Step '' , `` Bourbon Street Parade '' , `` Panama '' , `` Toot , Toot , Tootsie '' , `` Oh Didn't He Ramble '' , `` Beale Street Blues '' , `` Maryland , My Maryland '' , `` 1919 Rag '' , `` Eh , La Bas '' , `` Mood Indigo '' , and `` Bugle Call Rag '' .
All this will serve to show off the Ory style in fine fashion and is a must for those who want to collect elements of the old-time jazz before it is too late to lay hands on the gems .
Mischa Elman shared last night's Lewisohn Stadium concert with three American composers .
His portion of the program -- and a big portion it was -- consisted of half the major nineteenth-century concertos for the violin : to wit , the Mendelssohn and the Tchaikovsky .
There were 8,000 persons at the Stadium who can tell their grandchildren that they heard Elman .
The American part of the evening consisted of Paul Creston's Dance Overture , William Schuman's `` Chester '' From `` New England Triptych '' and two works of Wallingford Riegger , Dance Rhythms , Op. 58 , and a Romanza For Strings , Op. 56A .
The Creston is purely a potboiler , with Spanish , English , French and American dances mixed into the stew .
All these -- potboilers or no -- provided a welcome breath of fresh air in the form of lively , colorful , unstuffy works well suited for the great out-of-doors .
A woman who undergoes artificial insemination against the wishes of her husband is the unlikely heroine of `` A Question Of Adultery '' , yesterday's new British import at the Apollo .
Since an objective viewer might well conclude that this is not a situation that would often arise , the film's extensive discussion of the problem seems , at best , superfluous .
With Julie London enacting the central role with husky-voiced sincerity , the longsuffering heroine is at least attractive .
Anthony Steel , as the husband , is a jealous type who argues against her course and sues for divorce , labeling her action adulterous .
After a protracted , hysterical trial scene more notable for the frankness of its language than for dramatic credibility , the jury , to no one's surprise , leaves the legal question unresolved .
And please it did , in every sense of the word , for it had the audience shouting much of the time in a manner far from typical of London audiences .
But for all the manifest intention to `` show off '' , this was a circus with a difference , for instead of descending in quality to what is known as a popular level , it added further to the evidence that this is a very great dancing company .
The `` Taras Bulba '' excerpt is a rousing version of Gogol's Ukrainian folk-tale choreographed by Bo Fenster to music of Soloviev-Sedoi .
At the other extreme in character was the half-hour excerpt from the Petipa-Minkus ballet `` Bayaderka '' , which opened the evening .
Its ballerina , Olga Moiseyeva , performs simple miracles of beauty , and Ludmilla Alexeyeva , Inna Korneyeva and Gabrielle Komleva make up a threesome of exquisite accomplishments .
The middle section of the program was made up of short numbers , naturally enough of unequal merit , but all of them pretty good at that .
Vadim Kalentiev was the conductor .
It was quite an evening ! !
A year ago today , when the Democrats were fretting and frolicking in Los Angeles and John F. Kennedy was still only an able and ambitious Senator who yearned for the power and responsibility of the Presidency , Theodore H. White had already compiled masses of notes about the Presidential campaign of 1960 .
As the pace of the quadrennial American political festival accelerated , Mr. White took more notes .
He asked intimate questions and got frank answers from the members of what he calls the candidates' `` in-groups '' .
Those of us who read the papers may think we know a good deal about that election ; ;
This is a remarkable book and an astonishingly interesting one .
A lesson in politics
The author begins this volume with a close-up of Mr. Kennedy , his family and his entourage waiting for the returns .
Then , in chronological order , Mr. White covers the primary campaigns , the conventions and the Presidential campaign itself .
`` Rarely in American history has there been a political campaign that discussed issues less or clarified them less '' , says Mr. White .
Mr. Nixon is `` a broody , moody man , given to long stretches of introspection ; ;
Mr. Kennedy , Mr. White believes , `` had mastered politics on so many different levels that no other American could match him '' .
Pressures portrayed
`` The root question in American politics is always : Who's the Man to See ? ?
`` In the hard life of politics it is well known that no platform nor any program advanced by either major American party has any purpose beyond expressing emotion '' .
`` All platforms are meaningless : the program of either party is what lies in the vision and conscience of the candidate the party chooses to lead it '' .
Nostalgia week at Lewisohn Stadium , which had begun with the appearance of the 70-year-old Mischa Elman on Tuesday night , continued last night as Lily Pons led the list of celebrities in an evening of French operatic excerpts .
Miss Pons is certainly not 70 -- no singer ever is -- and yet the rewards of the evening again lay more in paying tribute to a great figure of times gone by than in present accomplishments .
No orchestra , however , could be expected to follow a singer through quite as many adventures with pitch as Miss Pons encountered last night .
One such moment came in the breathtaking way Miss Pons sang the cadenza to Meyerbeer's `` Shadow Song '' .
Sharing the program was the young French-Canadian tenor Richard Verreau , making his stadium debut on this occasion .
Radio is easily outdistancing television in its strides to reach the minority listener .
The mushrooming of FM outlets , offering concerts ( both jazz and classical ) , lectures , and other special events , is a phenomenon which has had a fair amount of publicity .
Not so well known is the growth of broadcasting operations aimed wholly or partly at Negro listeners -- an audience which , in the United States , comprises some 19,000,000 people with $20,000,000,000 to spend each year .
Of course , the nonwhite listener does his share of television watching .
But the growing number of Negro-appeal radio stations , plus evidence of strong listener support of their advertisers , give time salesmen an impressive argument as they approach new prospects .
These and other figures and comments have been reported in a special supplement of Sponsor magazine , a trade publication for radio and TV advertisers .
In the past 10 years , Sponsor observes , these trends have become apparent :
Advertisers are changing their attitudes , both as to the significance of this market and the ways of speaking to it .
Stations programing to Negro listeners are having to upgrade their shows in order to keep pace with rising educational , economic , and cultural levels .
In the last decade the number of Negro-appeal radio program hours has risen at least 15 per cent , and the number of Negro-appeal stations has increased 30 per cent , according to a research man quoted by Sponsor .
A year ago the Negro Radio Association was formed to spur research which the 30-odd member stations are sure will bring in more business .
The 1960 census underscored the explosive character of the population growth .
In New York City , WLIB boasts `` more community service programs than any other Negro station '' and `` one of the largest Negro news staffs in America '' .
In all big cities outside the South , and even in small towns within the South , radio stations can be found beaming some or all of their programs at Negro listeners .
One question which inevitably crops up is whether such stations have a future in a nation where the Negro is moving into a fully integrated status .
Whatever the long-range impact of integration , the owners of Negro-appeal radio stations these days know they have an audience and that it is loyal .
What sets Negro-appeal programing apart from other radio shows ? ?
Sponsor quotes John McLendon of the McLendon-Ebony station group as saying that the Southern Negro is becoming conscious of quality and `` does not wish to be associated with radio which is any way degrading to his race ; ;
The sociological impact is perhaps most eloquently summed up in this quotation of J. Walter Carroll of KSAN , San Francisco :
`` Negro-appeal radio is more important to the Negro today , because it provides a direct and powerful mirror in which the Negro can hear and see his ambitions , achievements and desires .
Presentation of `` The Life And Times Of John Sloan '' in the Delaware Art Center here suggests a current nostalgia for human values in art .
Staged by way of announcing the gift of a large and intimate Sloan collection by the artist's widow , Helen Farr Sloan , to the Wilmington Society of the Fine Arts , the exhibition presents a survey of Sloan's work .
Few artists have left a life work so eloquent of the period in which they lived .
Obviously Sloan's early years were influenced by his close friend Robert Henri .
The exhibition presents all phases of Sloan's many-sided art .
One of the most appealing of the rooftop canvases is `` Sun And Wind On The Roof '' , with a woman and child bracing themselves against flapping clothes and flying birds .
Significant are such canvases as `` Bleeker Street , Saturday Night '' , with its typically American crowd ( Sloan never went abroad ) ; ;
Not all the paintings , however , are of cities .
The fact that Sloan was an extrovert , concerned primarily with what he saw , adds greatly to the value of his art as a human chronicle .
There are 151 items in the Wilmington show , including one painting by each member of the `` Eight '' , as well as work by Sloan's friends and students .
To enable students and the public to spot Sloan forgeries , the Delaware Art Center ( according to its director , Bruce St. John ) will maintain a complete file of photographs of all Sloan works , as well as a card index file .
The current exhibition , which remains on view through Oct. 29 , has tapped 14 major collections and many private sources .
Any musician playing Beethoven here , where Beethoven was born , is likely to examine his own interpretations with special care .
Robert Riefling , who gave the only piano recital of the recently concluded 23rd Beethoven Festival , penetrated deep into the spirit of the style .
The D Minor Sonata , Op. 31 No. 2 , introduced by dynamically shaped arpeggios , was most engaging in its moments of quasi-recitative -- single lines in which the fingers seemed to be feeling their way toward the idea to come .
Two late Sonatas , Op. 110 and 111 , were played with similar insight , the disarming simplicities of the Op. 111 Adagio made plain without ever becoming obvious .
Volker Wangenheim , who conducted Bonn's Stadtisches Orchester on the following evening , made one more conscious of the process of interpretation .
But he weighted the Eighth Symphony , at times , with a shuddering subjectivity which seemed considerably at odds with the music .
The conductor's preoccupation with the business of starting and stopping caused occasional raggedness , as with the first orchestra entrance in the Fourth Piano Concerto , but when he put his deliberations and obsequies aside and let the music move as designed , it did so with plenty of spring .
The concerto's soloist , Hans Richter-Haaser , played with compensatory ease and economy , though without the consummate plasticity to which we had been treated on the previous evening by Herr Riefling .
Everybody returned after intermission for the miscellaneous sweepings of the Fantasy For Piano , Chorus , And Orchestra In C Minor , made up by its composer to fill out one of his programs .
The last program of this festival , which during two weeks had sampled most compositional categories , brought the Cologne Rundfunk-Sinfonie-Orchester and Rundfunkchor to Bonn's gold-filled hall for a performance of the Missa Solemnis .
A tribe in ancient India believed the earth was a huge tea tray resting on the backs of three giant elephants , which in turn stood on the shell of a great tortoise .
It is the business of cosmologists , the scientists who study the nature and structure of the universe , to try to solve the great cosmic mysteries by using keys that have clicked open other doors .
In the autumn of 1959 , the British Broadcasting Corporation presented a series of talks by four scientists competent in cosmology .
Dr. Whitrow functioned as moderator .
Dr. Bonnor begins with a discussion of the relativistic theories of the universe , based on the general theory of relativity .
Expands and contracts
Professor Bondi disagrees with the expansion-contraction theory .
If this is true , then the universe today looks just as it did millions of years ago and as it will look millions of years hence , even though the universe is expanding .
Dr. Lyttleton backs the theory that we live in an electric universe and this theory starts with the behavior of protons and electrons .
Now if one hydrogen atom were placed at the surface of a large sphere of hydrogen atoms , it would be subject both to the gravitation of the sphere and the charge-excess of all those atoms in the sphere .
Dr. Lyttleton then imagines the universe as a large hydrogen sphere with surface atoms shooting away from it .
Fleeting glimpse
It is clear from this discussion that cosmologists of every persuasion look hopefully toward the day when a man-made satellite can be equipped with optical devices which will open up new vistas to science .
There would seem to be some small solace in the prospect that the missile race between nations is at the same time accelerating the study of the space around us , giving us a long-sought ladder from which to peer at alien regions .
In doing away with the tea tray , the elephants and the giant tortoise , science has developed a series of rationally defensible explanations of the cosmos .
Only in its final scene , where Beatie Bryant ( Mary Doyle ) shakes off the disappointment of being jilted by her intellectual lover and proclaims her emancipation do we get much which makes worthwhile the series of boorish rustic happenings we have had to watch for most of the first two and one-half acts .
The burden of Mr. Wesker's message is that people living close to the soil ( at least in England ) are not the happy , fine , strong , natural , earthy people city-bred intellectuals imagine .
But this is a theme which does not take so much time to state as Mr. Wesker dedicates to it .
Now for the good points .
Beatie , getting no sympathy for her misfortune , soon rallies and finds that although she has lost a lover she has gained her freedom .
There were several fairly good minor portraits in the play , including William Hansen's impersonation of a stubborn , rather pathetic father , and Katherine Squire's vigorous characterization of a farm mother who brooked no hifalutin' nonsense from her daughter , or anyone else .
Shakespeare had a word for everything , even for the rain that disrupted Wednesday night's `` Much Ado About Nothing '' opening the season of free theatre in Central Park .
The New York Shakespeare Festival , which is using the Wollman Memorial Skating Rink while its theatre near the Belvedere is being completed , began bravely .
The audience filled all the seats inside the Wollman enclosure and overflowed onto the lawns outside the fence .
As `` Much Ado '' turned serious while the insipid Claudio rejected Hero at the altar , a sprinkle began to fall .
More than half the audience departed .
Beatrice ( Nan Martin ) and Benedick ( J. D. Cannon ) took their places on the stage .
Said Benedick : `` Lady Beatrice , have you wept all this while '' ? ?
Replied Beatrice : `` Yea , and I will weep a while longer '' .
The heavens refused to give up their weeping .
The Parks Department has done an admirable job of preparing the Wollman Rink for Shakespeare .
Eldon Elder , who designed the stage , also created a gay , spacious set that blended attractively with the park background and Shakespeare's lighthearted mood .
Elisabeth Schwarzkopf sang so magnificently Saturday night at Hunter College that it seems a pity to have to register any complaints .
Schwarzkopf is , of course , Schwarzkopf .
But what has been happening recently might be described as creeping mannerism .
The symptoms Saturday night were unmistakable .
There were stunning musical phrases too , and sometimes the deepest kind of musical and poetic absorption and communication .
The dance , dancers and dance enthusiasts ( 8,500 of them ) had a much better time of it at Lewisohn Stadium on Saturday night than all had had two nights earlier , when Stadium Concerts presented the first of two dance programs .
On Saturday , the orchestra was sensibly situated down on the field , the stage floor was apparently in decent condition for dancing , and the order of the program improved .
There was , additionally , a bonus for the Saturday-night patrons .
Otherwise , the program included , as on Thursday , the Taras-Tchaikovsky `` Design For Strings '' , the Dollar-Britten `` Divertimento '' , the Dollar-De Banfield `` The Duel '' and the pas de deux from `` The Nutcracker '' .
Maria Tallchief and Erik Bruhn , who danced the `` Nutcracker '' pas de deux , were also seen in the Petipa-Minkus pas de deux from `` Don Quixote '' , another brilliant showpiece that displayed their technical prowess handsomely .
Among the other solo ballet dancers of the evening , Elisabeth Carroll and Ivan Allen were particularly impressive in their roles in `` The Duel '' , a work that depends so much upon the precision and incisiveness of the two principal combatants .
Mr. Ailey's `` Roots Of The Blues '' , an earthy and very human modern dance work , provided strong contrast to the ballet selections of the evening .
As Brother John Sellers sang five `` blues '' to the guitar and drum accompaniments of Bruce Langhorne and Shep Shepard , Mr. Ailey and Miss De Lavallade went through volatile dances that were by turns insinuating , threatening , contemptuous and ecstatic .
Their props were two stepladders , a chair and a palm fan .
The cat-like sinuousness and agility of both dancers were exploited in leaps , lifts , crawls and slides that were almost invariably compelling in a work of strong , sometimes almost frightening , tensions .
`` Perhaps it is better to stay at home .
The only man alive who seems qualified by his learning , his disposition and his addiction to a baroque luxuriance of language to inherit the literary mantle of Sacheverell Sitwell , Mr. Sansom writes of foreign parts with a dedication to decoration worthy of a pastry chef creating a wedding cake for the marriage of a Hungarian beauty ( her third ) and an American multimillionaire ( his fourth ) .
There are sixteen essays in `` Blue Skies , Brown Studies '' .
A contemplative connoisseur
William Sansom writes only about Europe in this book and frequently of such familiar places as London , Vienna , the French Riviera and the Norwegian fjords .
Mr. Sansom can be eloquent in a spectacular way which recalls ( to those who recall easily ) the statues of Bernini and the gigantic paintings of Tintoretto .
Beauty borrowed from afar
`` The white colonnaded , cedar-roofed Southern mansion is directly traceable via the grey and buff stone of grey-skied England to the golden stucco of one particular part of the blue South , the Palladian orbit stretching out from Vicenza : the old mind of Andrea Palladio still smiles from behind many an old rocking chair on a Southern porch , the deep friezes of his architectonic music rise firm above the shallower freeze in the kitchen , his feeling for light and shade brings a glitter from a tall mint julep , his sense of columns framing the warm velvet night has brought together a million couple of mating lips '' .
`` Blue Skies , Brown Studies '' is illustrated with numerous excellent photographs .
In recent days there have been extensive lamentations over the absence of original drama on television , but not for years have many regretted the passing of new plays on radio .
WBAI is on the right track : in the sound medium there has been excessive emphasis on music and news and there could and should be a place for theatre , as the Canadian and British Broadcasting Corporations continue to demonstrate .
Mrs. Reavey's work is written for the stage -- it is mentioned for an off-Broadway production in the fall -- and , in addition , employs an avant-garde structure that particularly needs to be seen if comprehension is to be encouraged .
The play's device is to explore society's obsession with disaster and violence through the eyes of a group of artist's models who remain part of someone else's painting rather than just be themselves .
Somewhere in Mrs. Reavey's play there is both protest and aspiration of merit .
But quite conceivably an altogether different impression will obtain when the work is offered in the theatre and there can be other effects to relieve the burden on the author's words .
A weekly showcase for contemporary music , from the austere archaism of Stravinsky to the bleeps and bloops of electronic music , is celebrating its fourth anniversary this month .
Titled `` What's New In Music '' ? ?
The brief notes introducing each work offer salient historical or technical points , and many listeners are probably grateful for being intelligently taken by the hand through an often difficult maze .
The first Saturday in each month is set aside for new recordings .
Other Saturdays are devoted to studies of a selected American composer , a particular type of music or the music of a given country .
It is commendable that a regularly scheduled hour is set aside for an introduction to the contemporary musical scene .
The Moiseyev Dance Company dropped in at Madison Square Garden last night for the first of four farewell performances before it brings its long American tour to a close .
It is not simply giving a repetition of the program it gave during its New York engagement earlier this season , but has brought back many of the numbers that were on the bill when it paid us its first visit and won everybody's heart .
It is good to see those numbers again .
So , for that matter , are the newer dances -- the `` Kalmuk Dance '' with its animal movements , that genial juggling act by Sergei Tsvetkov called `` The Platter '' , the rousing and beautiful betrothal celebration called `` Summer '' , `` The Three Shepherds '' of Azerbaijan hopping up on their staffs , and , of course , the trenchant `` Rock 'n' Roll '' .
As autumn starts its annual sweep , few Americans and Canadians realize how fortunate they are in having the world's finest fall coloring .
Nature
Late September finds Quebec's color at its peak , especially in the Laurentian hills and in the area south of the St. Lawrence River .
Vermont's sugar maples are scarlet from Sept. 25 to Oct. 15 , and often hit a height in early October .
Middle Atlantic states .
The Adirondacks blaze brightest in early October , choice routes being 9N from Saratoga up to Lake George and 73 and 86 in the Lake Placid area .
During the first half of October the Blue Ridge and other parts of the Appalachians provide a spectacle stretching from Maryland and West Virginia to Georgia .
Michigan , Wisconsin and Minnesota have many superb stretches of color which reach their height from the last few days of September well into October , especially in their northern sections , e.g. , Wisconsin's Vilas County whose Colorama celebration is Sept. 29-Oct. 8 .
The Rockies have many `` Aspencades '' , which are organized tours of the aspen areas with frequent stops at vantage points for viewing the golden panoramas .
Americana
Two sharply contrasting places designed for public enjoyment are now on display .
The Corn Palace at Mitchell , S. Dak. , `` the world's corniest building '' , has a carnival through Sept. 23 headlining the Three Stooges and Pee Wee Hunt .
Longwood Gardens , near Kennett Square , Pa. ( about 12 miles from Wilmington , Del. ) , was developed and heavily endowed by the late Pierre S. Du Pont .
Books
Carson McCullers , after a long , painful illness that might have crushed a less-indomitable soul , has come back with an absolute gem of a novel which jumped high on best-seller lists even before official publication .
With an art that almost conceals art , J. D. Salinger can create a fictional world so authentic that it hurts .
Virgilia Peterson , a critic by trade , has turned her critical eye pitilessly and honestly on herself in an autobiography more of the mind and heart than of specific events .
This retelling by Louis Zara of the brief , anguished life of Stephen Crane -- poet and master novelist at 23 , dead at 28 -- is in novelized form but does not abuse its tragic subject .
Dance
Two noted troupes from overseas will get the fall dance season off to a sparkling start .
Festivals
With harvests in full swing , you can enjoy festivals for grapes at Sonoma , Calif. ( Sept. 22-24 ) , as well as for cranberries at Bandon , Ore. ( Sept. 28 thru Oct. 1 ) , for buckwheat at Kingwood , W. Va. ( Sept. 28-30 ) , sugar cane at New Iberia , La. ( Sept. 29 thru Oct. 1 ) and tobacco at Richmond , Va. ( Sept. 23-30 ) .
The mule is honored at Benson , N.C. ( Sept. 22 , 23 ) and at Boron , Calif. ( Sept. 24 thru Oct. 1 ) , while the legend of the Maid of the Mist is celebrated at Niagara Falls through the 24th .
Movies
Records
Callas devotees will have good reason to do their customary cart wheels over a new and complete stereo version of the Bellini opera .
In a raucous take-off on radio commercials , Singer Ray Stevens hawks a cure-all for neuritis , neuralgia , head-cold distress , beriberi , overweight , fungus , mungus and water on the knee .
More and more boats move overland on wheels ( 1.8 million trailers are now in use ) and Midwesterners taking long weekends can travel south with their craft .
Boating
Pleasure boating is just scooting into its best months in California as crisp breezes bring out craft of every size on every kind of water -- ocean , lake and reservoir .
Inland , outboard motorists welcome cooler weather and the chance to buzz over Colorado River sandbars and Lake Mead .
Hurricane Carla damaged 70% of the marinas in the Galveston-Port Aransas area but fuel service is back to normal , and explorers can roam as far west as Port Isabel on the Mexican border .
Memphis stinkpotters like McKellar Lake , inside the city limits , and sailors look for autumn winds at Arkabutla Lake where fall racing is now in progress .
Ten thousand twisty miles of shoreline frame the 30-odd lakes in the vast Tennessee River system that loops in and out of seven states .
A year ago it was bruited that the primary character in Erich Maria Remarque's new novel was based on the Marquis Alfonso De Portago , the Spanish nobleman who died driving in the Mille Miglia automobile race of 1957 .
One looked forward to Mr. Remarque's ninth book if only because not even a reasonably good novel has yet been written grounded on automobile racing , as dramatic a sport as mankind has devised .
Mr. Remarque's conception of this novel was sound and perhaps even noble .
This latter failure is more than merely bad reportage and it is distinctly more important than it would have been had the author drawn Clerfayt as , say , a tournament golfer .
But it is in the matter of preoccupation with death , which is the primary concern of the book , that Remarque's failure is plainest .
Clerfayt , transported , may think of the engine driving his car as `` a mystical beast under the hood '' .
Errors in technical terminology suggest that the over-all translation from the German may not convey quite everything Mr. Remarque hoped to tell us .
However , my principal objection in this sort of novel is to the hackneyed treatment of race-drivers , pilots , submariners , atomic researchers , and all the machine-masters of our age as brooding mystics or hysterical fatalists .
The west is leaderless , according to this book .
It is Field Marshal Montgomery's belief that in most Western countries about 60 per cent of the people do not really care about democracy or Christianity ; ;
But these Western countries do care about themselves .
With this barrage , Montgomery of Alamein launches his attack upon the blunderings of the West .
Montgomery believes that she started well .
But the greater reason for fumbling , stumbling American leadership is due to the shock her pride suffered when the Japanese attacked at Pearl Harbor .
The net result is that under American leadership the general world situation has become bad .
As faulty as has been our leadership clearly the United States must be relied upon to lead .
Such a leader must strengthen NATO politically , and establish that true unity about which it has always talked .
`` But where is the leader who will handle all these things for us '' ? ?
Whoever rises to the occasion walks a treacherous path to leadership .
In looking as far back as Moses , thence to Cromwell , Napoleon , Lincoln , Churchill , and Nehru , Montgomery attempts to trace the stirrings and qualities of great men .
However , Montgomery makes little contribution to leadership theory and practice .
Nevertheless , Montgomery has stated courageously and wisely the crisis of the Western world .
It is no common thing for a listener ( critical or otherwise ) to hear a singer `` live '' for the first time only after he has died .
To be sure , Lanza made numerous concert tours , here and abroad , but these did not take him to New York where the carping critic might lurk .
The reading public , the theatergoing public , the skindiving public , the horse-playing public -- all these and others fill substantial roles in U.S. life , but none is so varied , vast and vigilant as the eating public .
Through previous centuries , eating changed by nearly imperceptible degrees , and mostly toward just getting enough .
Fads , facts
But a big part of the public wants to know facts about diet and health , and a big group of U.S. scientists wants to supply them .
And fats .
Keys's findings , though far from complete , are likely to smash many an eating cliche .
Out of cholesterol come Keys's main messages so far :
Americans eat too much .
Americans eat too much fat .
Obesity : a malnutrition .
Throughout much of the world , food is still so scarce that half of the earth's population has trouble getting the 1,600 calories a day necessary to sustain life .
In the well-fed U.S. , deficiency diseases have virtually vanished in the past 20 years .
Puritan New England regarded obesity as a flagrant symbol of intemperance , and thus a sin .
Physiologically , people overeat because what Dr. Jolliffe calls the `` appestat '' is set too high .
Food for frustration .
Far more frequently , overeating is the result of a psychological compulsion .
For the army of compulsive eaters -- from the nibblers and the gobblers to the downright gluttons -- reducing is a war with the will that is rarely won .
Keys has no such objections to Metrecal , Quaker Oats's Quota and other 900-calorie milk formulas that are currently winning favor from dieters .
That remarkable cholesterol .
Despite his personal distaste for obesity ( `` disgusting '' ) , Dr. Keys has only an incidental interest in how much Americans eat .
Cholesterol , the cornerstone of Dr. Keys's theory , is a mysterious yellowish , waxy substance , chemically a crystalline alcohol .
When thus deposited , Keys says that cholesterol is mainly responsible for the arterial blockages that culminate in heart attacks .
Fats & coronaries .
Ordinarily , the human liver synthesizes only enough cholesterol to satisfy the body's needs -- for transportation of fats and for production of bile .
During World War 2 , , doctors in The Netherlands and Scandinavia noted a curious fact : despite the stresses of Nazi occupation , the death rate from coronary artery disease was slowly dropping .
All natural food fats fall into one of three categories -- saturated , mono-unsaturated and poly-unsaturated .
The three fats have similar caloric values ( about 265 calories per oz. ) , but each exerts a radically different influence on blood cholesterol .
As a result , although we still make use of this distinction , there is much confusion as to the meaning of the basic terms employed .
One of the most widespread features of contemporary thought is the almost universal disbelief in the reality of spirit .
The progress of science over these last few centuries and the gradual replacement of Biblical by scientific categories of reality have to a large extent emptied the spirit world of the entities which previously populated it .
All this has not , however , been an unmixed blessing .
The situation in which we find ourselves is brought out with dramatic force in Arthur Miller's play The Crucible , which deals with the Salem witch trials .
As the play unfolds , however , the audience is subtly brought into the grip of an awful evil which grows with ominously gathering power and soon engulfs the community .
If one asks about this play , what it is that comes upon this community and works within it with such terrible power , there is no better answer to give than `` spirit '' .
Even Mr. Miller himself seems uncertain on this score .
Apparently he does not intend that those who read or view this play should think of the devil as being actually real .
Spirit and community
There is nothing in the whole range of human experience more widely known and universally felt than spirit .
In searching for clues which might lead us to a fresh apprehension of the reality of spirit , the close connection between spirit and community is likely to prove the most fruitful .
One characteristic of the spirit in community is its givenness .
If the content of faith is to be presented today in a form that can be `` understanded of the people '' -- and this , it must not be forgotten , is one of the goals of the perennial theological task -- there is no other choice but to abandon completely a mythological manner of representation .
This does not mean that mythological language as such can no longer be used in theology and preaching .
The statement is often made that when Bultmann argues in this way , he `` overestimates the intellectual stumbling-block which myth is supposed to put in the way of accepting the Christian faith '' .
In fact , it is in just such a situation that the profundity of Bultmann's argument is disclosed .
The same thing is also evidenced by the extreme `` culture-Protestantism '' so often observed to characterize the preaching and teaching of the American churches .
However , even if the latent demand for demythologization is not nearly as widespread as we are claiming , at least among the cultured elements of the population there tends to be an almost complete indifference to the church and its traditional message of sin and grace .
There is an ancient and venerable tradition in the church ( which derives , however , from the heritage of the Greeks rather than from the Bible ) that God is completely independent of his creation and so has no need of men for accomplishing his work in the world .
And yet this is exactly the risk we run when we assume , as we too often do , that we can continue to preach the gospel in a form that makes it seem incredible and irrelevant to cultured men .
In arguing in this way , we are obviously taking for granted that a demythologized restatement of the kerygma can be achieved ; ;
This is what we mean when we say this demand must be accepted without condition .
This must be stressed because it is absolutely essential to the argument of this concluding chapter .
To say this , of course , is to take up a position on one side of a controversy going on now for some two hundred years , or , at any rate , since the beginning of the distinctively modern period in theological thought .
What makes this long and diverse tradition essentially one is that those who have belonged to it have been profoundly in earnest about being modern men in a distinctively modern world .
When we say , then , that today , in our situation , the demand for demythologization must be accepted without condition , we are simply saying that at least this much of the liberal tradition is an enduring achievement .
In affirming this we have already taken the decisive step in breaking the deadlock into which Bultmann's attempt to formulate such a theology has led .
It follows , then , provided the possibilities have been exhausted , that the only real alternative is the general viewpoint of the `` left '' , which has been represented on the Continent by Fritz Buri and , to some extent at least , is found in much that is significant in American and English theology .
In order to make the implications of our position as clear as possible , we may develop this argument at greater length .
We may show , first , that there cannot possibly be an alternative other than the three typically represented by Bultmann , Barth , and Buri .
A second point requires more extended comment .
One hundred years ago there existed in England the Association for the Promotion of the Unity of Christendom .
Now again in 1961 , in England , there is perhaps nothing in the religious sphere so popularly discussed as Christian unity .
I came to England last summer to do research on the unpublished letters of Cardinal Newman .
Since the Protestant clergy for the most part wear gray or some variant from the wholly black suit , my Roman collar and black garb usually identify me in England as a Roman Catholic cleric .
Nowhere have I seen public expression of anti-Catholicism .
`` When you pile your `` guy '' on the bonfire tomorrow night , I wonder how much of the true story of Guy Fawkes you will remember ? ?
In spite of the increase in numbers and prestige brought about by the conversions of Newman and other Tractarians of the 1840's and 1850's , the Catholic segment of England one hundred years ago was a very small one ( four per cent , or 800,000 ) which did not enjoy a gracious hearing from the general public .
Now , in 1961 , the Catholic population of England is still quite small ( ten per cent , or 5 million ) ; ;
The Protestant themselves are the first to admit the great falling off in effective membership in their churches .
While it must be said that these same Protestants have built some new churches during this period , and that religious population shifts have emptied churches , a principal reason for this phenomenon of redundancy is that fewer Protestants are going to church .
An Anglican clergyman in Oxford sadly but frankly acknowledged to me that this is true .
Many English Catholics are proud of their Catholicism and know that they are in a new ascendancy .
They hope , of course , to reclaim the non-Catholic population to the Catholic faith , and at every Sunday Benediction they recite by heart the `` Prayer for England '' :
`` O Blessed Virgin Mary , Mother of God and our most gentle queen and mother , look down in mercy upon England , thy `` dowry '' , and upon us all who greatly hope and trust in thee .
Because they have kept the faith of their medieval fathers , English Catholics have always strongly resented the charge of being `` un-English '' .
One of the more noteworthy changes that have taken place since the mid-19th century is the situation of Catholics at Oxford and Cambridge Universities .
Further evidence that Roman Catholicism enjoys a more favorable position today than in 1861 is the respectful attention given to it in the mass media of England .
Catholic priests have frequently appeared on television programs , sometimes discussing the Christian faith on an equal footing with Protestant clergymen .
Of course , the crowning event that has dramatically upset the traditional pattern of English religious history was the friendly visit paid by Dr. Fisher , then Anglican Archbishop of Canterbury , to the Vatican last December .
Almost daily something is reported which feeds this Catholic hope in England : statistics of the increasing numbers of converts and Irish Catholic immigrants ; ;
The death of a man is unique , and yet it is universal .
Christianity declares that in the life and death of Jesus Christ the unique and the universal concur .
The first turn of the spiral is the primeval history of humanity in Adam .
The biblical symbol for this affirmation is expressed in the words : `` So God created man in his own image ; ;
Therefore Irenaeus describes man's creation as follows :
`` So that the man should not have thoughts of grandeur , and become lifted up , as if he had no lord , because of the dominion that had been given to him , and the freedom , fall into sin against God his Creator , overstepping his bounds , and take up an attitude of self-conceited arrogance towards God , a law was given him by God , that he might know that he had for lord the lord of all .
Man was created with the capacity for immortality , but the devil's promise of immortality in exchange for disobedience cost Adam his immortality .
`` Eve was disobedient ; ;
With this act of disobedience , and not with the inception of his individual existence , man began the downward circuit on the spiral of history , descending from the created capacity for immortality to an inescapable mortality .
Nevertheless , even at the nadir of the circuit the spiral of history belongs to God , and he still rules .
`` Wherefore also He ( God ) drove him ( man ) out of Paradise , and removed him far from the tree of life , not because He envied him the tree of life , as some venture to assert , but because He pitied him , ( and did not desire ) that he should continue a sinner for ever , nor that the sin which surrounded him should be immortal , and evil interminable and irremediable .
It is probably fair to say that the idea of death is more profound in Irenaeus than the idea of sin is .
Death reminds man of his sin , but it reminds him also of his transience .
On the other hand , Christian faith knows that death is more than the natural termination of temporal existence .
Furthermore , as an encouragement to revisionist thinking , it manifestly is fair to admit that any fraternity has a constitutional right to refuse to accept persons it dislikes .
Grant all this -- still , when modern Unitarianism and the Harvard Divinity School recall with humorous affection the insults Parker lavished upon them , or else argue that after all Parker received the treatment he invited , they betray an uneasy conscience .
Happily for posterity , then , the Boston Association did not actually command Parker to leave the room , though it came too close for comfort to what would have been an unforgivable brutality .
All this near tragedy , which to us borders on comedy , enables us to tell the story over and over again , always warming ourselves with a glow of complacency .
However , there is a crucial difference between the two histories .
Actually , the dispute between Parker and the society of his time , both ecclesiastical and social , was a real one , a bitter one .
There can be no doubt , the Boston of that era could be exquisitely cruel in enforcing its canons of behavior .
Channing wrote this -- in a letter ! !
By reminding ourselves of these factors in the situation , we should , I am sure , come to a fresh realization , however painful it be , that the battle between Parker and his neighbors was fought in earnest .
Our endeavor to capture even a faint sense of how strenuous was the fight is muffled by our indifference to the very issue which in the Boston of 1848 seemed to be the central hope of its Christian survival , that of the literal , factual historicity of the miracles as reported in the Four Gospels .
I have , within the past fifty years , come out of all uncertainty into a faith which is a dominating conviction of the Truth and about which I have not a shadow of doubt .
At one time I became disturbed in the faith in which I had grown up by the apparent inroads being made upon both Old and New Testaments by a `` Higher Criticism '' of the Bible , to refute which I felt the need of a better knowledge of Hebrew and of archaeology , for it seemed to me that to pull out some of the props of our faith was to weaken the entire structure .
Doubts thus inculcated left me floundering for a while and , like some higher critical friends , trying to continue to use the Bible as the Word of God while at the same time holding it to have been subjected to a vast number of redactions and interpolations : attempting to bridge the chasm between an older , reverent , Bible-loving generation and a critical , doubting , Bible-emancipated race .
In one thing the higher critics , like the modernists , however , overreached themselves , in claiming that the Gospel of John was not written in John's time but well after the first century , perhaps as late as 150 A.D. .
So , I put my Bible to the practical test of noting what it says about itself , and then tested it to see how it worked .
The outcome of such an experiment has been in due time the acceptance of the Bible as the Word of God inspired in a sense utterly different from any merely human book , and with it the acceptance of our Lord Jesus Christ as the only begotten Son of God , Son of Man by the Virgin Mary , the Saviour of the world .
I believe , therefore , that we are without exception sinners , by nature alienated from God , and that Jesus Christ , the Son of God , came to earth , the representative Head of a new race , to die upon the cross and pay the penalty of the sin of the world , and that he who thus receives Christ as his personal Saviour is `` born again '' spiritually , with new privileges , appetites , and affections , destined to live and grow in His likeness forever .
I now ever look for Christ according to His promises and those of the Old Testament as well , to appear again in glory to put away all sin and to reign in righteousness over the whole earth .
To state fully what the Bible means as my daily spiritual food is as intimate and difficult as to formulate the reasons for loving my nearest and dearest relatives and friends .
Our Lord's invitation with its implied promise to all is , `` Come and see '' .
I stood at the bedside of my patient one day and beheld a very sick man in terrible pain .
In his heart he had that peace of which the Lord spoke when He said , `` Peace I leave with you , my peace I give unto you : not as the world giveth , give I unto you .
What a joy to realize that we , too , can claim this promise tendered by the Lord during His earthly ministry to a group of men who were very dear to Him .
I praise God for the privilege of being a nurse who has that peace through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ .
How often have I looked to Jesus when entering the sick room , asking for His presence and help in my professional duties as I give my talents not only as the world giveth but as one who loves the Saviour and His creatures .
Looking unto God , the Prophet Isaiah wrote these blessed words almost three thousand years ago : `` Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace , whose mind is stayed on thee : because he trusteth in thee '' .
Are you longing for peace in your heart ? ?
Perhaps you are not His child .
`` God so loved the world , that he gave his only begotten Son , that whosoever believeth in him should not perish , but have everlasting life '' , and `` as many as received him , to them gave He power to become the sons of God , even to them that believe on His name '' .
It is to those who believe on His name and belong to Him that He gives His peace ; ;
Why not open your heart to the Lord Jesus Christ now , accept Him as your Saviour and let Him fill you with peace that only He can give .
Then , with the hymn writer of old , you can say :
`` I am resting today in His wonderful peace ,
Resting sweetly in Jesus' control .
I am kept from all danger by night and by day ,
And His glory is flooding my soul '' .
Satellites , sputniks , rockets , balloons ; ;
While we are filling outer space with scientific successes , for many the `` inner '' space of their soul is an aching void .
Proof ? ?
Unfortunately , in our rush to beat the Russians , we have forgotten these truth-packed words of Jesus Christ : `` What shall it profit a man , if he shall gain the whole world ( that includes outer space ) , and lose his own soul ? ?
Gaining outer space and losing `` inner '' space is bad business according to God's standards .
It is true that we must keep up our national defenses and scientific accomplishments ; ;
Is putting a rocket in orbit half so significant as the good news that God put His Son , Jesus Christ , on earth to live and die to save our hell-bound souls ? ?
Never forget that a chain is only as strong as its weakest link .
Is forgiveness of past sins , assurance of present help , and hope of future bliss in your orbit ? ?
So it is spiritually .
You can receive God into your heart and life by a step of personal faith .
`` The Lord is my light and my salvation ; ;
A certain teacher scheduled a `` Fear Party '' for her fourth grade pupils .
Dr. George W. Crane , a medical columnist , thinks it would .
We are evidently trying hard to think of new ways to deal with the problem of fear these days .
Well , most of our fears may be unfounded , but after you discover that fact , you have something else to worry about : Why then do we have these fears ? ?
Look at the things we do to escape our fears and to forget our worries .
A visitor from a more peaceful country across the sea was taken to one of our amusement parks , and after he had seen it all , he said to a friend : `` You must be a very sad people '' .
In one of his writings Pascal speaks of this mania for diversion as being a sign of misery and fear which man cannot endure without such opiates .
Meanwhile , the enemy will capitalize on our fears , if he can .
Turning to the Word of God , we find the only sure way to do that .
Well , you say , those are beautiful words all right , but it was easy for the psalmist to sing them in his day .
No ? ?
That is almost a perfect description of the predicament in which we find ourselves today , isn't it ? ?
What a terrible thing , that `` wailing wall '' in Berlin ! !
These things may be happening many miles away from us but really they are right next door .
Notice that this man had a threefold conception of God which is the secret of his faith .
In fact , He came into this world Himself , in the person of His Son , Jesus Christ , who stood here amid the darkness of human sin and said : `` I am the light of the world : he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness , but shall have the light of life '' .
This is the faith that moved the psalmist to add his second conception of God : `` The Lord is my salvation '' .
The apostle Paul said the same thing in the language and faith of the New Testament : `` He that spared not His own Son , but delivered Him up for us all , how shall He not with Him freely give us all things ? ?
Salvation ! !
And so the psalmist gives us one more picture of God : `` The Lord is the strength of my life '' .
But , again , we have no real evidence on this from that quarter until the close of the ninth century A.D. , when an Arabic scholar , Tabit Ibn Korra ( 836-901 ) is said to have discussed the magic square of three .
2 .
After all this destruction of old literature , it should be obvious why we have so little information about the early history and development of the Lo Shu , which was already semisecret anyhow .
Although modern scholars have expressed surprise that `` the simple magic square of three '' , a mere `` mathematical puzzle '' , was able to exert a considerable influence on the minds and imaginations of the cultured Chinese for so many centuries , they could have found most of the answers right within the square itself .
Such an analysis speedily reveals why the middle number of the Lo Shu , 5 , was so vitally significant for the Chinese ever since the earliest hints that they had a knowledge of this diagram .
If one takes the middle number , 5 , and multiplies it by 3 ( the base number of the magic square of three ) , the result is 15 , which is also the constant sum of all the rows , columns , and two main diagonals .
Furthermore , the middle number of the Lo Shu is not only the physical mean between every opposing pair of the other numbers , by reason of its central position ; ;
The tremendous emphasis on the 5 in the Lo Shu square -- for purely mathematical reasons -- and the fact that this number so neatly symbolized the heart and center of the universe , could well explain why the Old Chinese seem to have so revered the number 5 , and why they put so much stress on the concept of Centrality .
The existing reverence for Centrality must have been still further stimulated toward the close of the second century B.C. , when the Han Emperor Wu Ti ordered the dynastic color changed to yellow -- which symbolized the Center among the traditional Five Directions -- and took 5 as the dynastic number , believing that he would thus place himself , his imperial family , and the nation under the most auspicious influences .
After this time , inscriptions on the Han bronze mirrors , as well as other writings , emphasized the desirability of keeping one's self at the center of the universe , where cosmic forces were strongest .
All this emphasis on Centrality and on the number 5 as a symbolic expression of the Center , which seems to have begun as far back as 400 B.C. , also may conceivably have led to the development of the Five-Elements School and the subsequent efforts to fit everything into numerical categories of five .
This whole tendency had an unfortunate effect on Chinese thinking .
3 .
The Chinese world view during the Han dynasty , when the Lo Shu seems to have been at the height of its popularity , was based in large part on the teachings of the Yin-Yang and Five-Elements School , which was traditionally founded by Tsou Yen .
We have already seen that odd numbers were considered as being Yang , while the even numbers were Yin , so that the eight outer numbers of the Lo Shu represented these two principles in balanced equilibrium around the axial center .
Thus the middle number , 5 , represented Sung-Shan in Honan , Central China ; ;
Note that by Western standards this plan was `` upside down '' , as it put North at the bottom and South at the top , with the other directions correspondingly altered ; ;
Few persons who join the Church are insincere .
The work of Lay Visitation Evangelism is not completed when all of the persons on the Responsibility List have been interviewed .
Preparation for membership
It is important that persons desiring to unite with the Church be prepared for this experience so that it may be meaningful and spiritually significant .
Preparation for Church membership begins immediately after the commitment is received .
Many churches find the Sunday school hour to be the most practical time for adult preparation classes .
The sessions should cover four major areas : A
.
Fourth session important
Additional suggestions for membership preparation
What about transfers ? ?
There is A growing conviction among pastors and Church leaders that all those who come into the fellowship of the Church need preparatory training , including those coming by transfer of membership .
People appreciate experiences that demand something of them .
The preparatory class is an introductory face-to-face group in which new members become acquainted with one another .
Reception into the Church Fellowship
Every detail of the service merits careful attention -- the hymns , the sermon , the ritual , the right hand of fellowship , the introduction to the congregation , the welcome of the congregation .
The worship service is the natural and logical time to receive new members into the Church .
Chapter 6 planning for the assimilation and growth of new members
Yet the most difficult problem in the Church's program of evangelism is right at this point -- helping new members to become participating , growing parts of the fellowship .
A study of major denominational membership statistics over a twenty-year period revealed the appalling fact that nearly 40 per cent of those who joined the Church were lost to the Church within seven years .
This problem is illustrated by the fact that many local churches drop from the active membership rolls each year as many as they receive into the fellowship .
Basic needs
If the church has followed the plan of cultivation of prospects and carried through a program of membership preparation as outlined earlier in this book , the process of assimilation and growth will be well under way .
However , it is not enough to bring persons to Christian commitment and train them in the meaning of Christian discipleship .
The Church expects certain things of those who become members .
-- Welcome into the fellowship
-- Sincere Christian love and understanding
-- Inspiring and challenging worship experiences
-- Social and recreational activities
-- Opportunities for Christian service
-- Opportunities for study of the Christian faith and the Bible
-- Creative prayer experiences
-- Guidance in Christian social concerns .
Men need unity and they need God .
The source of this paradox is not difficult to identify .
Yet the fact remains that such institutions do set men at odds with their fellows .
What are the pertinent facts affecting such communication at the present juncture of history ? ?
1 )
Interfaith conflicts which spring from psychological deficiencies are the most unfortunate of all , for they have no redeeming features whatsoever .
2 )
Emerging from the two centuries of colonial domination , the Afro-Asian world is aflame with a nationalism that has undone empires .
All this works severely against the kind of cross-cultural communication for which Christian missions stand .
The progressive closing of Afro-Asian ears to the Christian message is epitomized in a conversation I had three years ago while flying from Jerusalem to Cairo .
Although I have emphasized the barriers which an aroused nationalism has raised against relations between Christians and non-Christians in Asia , the fact is that this development has also widened the gulf between certain Afro-Asian religions themselves .
3 )
Theocracy reconsidered .
The trend throughout the world's religions has been toward a recognition of at least the practical validity of this constitutional enactment .
Comparable trends can be noted elsewhere .
Salvation reconsidered .
When they say that under no circumstances would it ever be right to `` permit '' the termination of the human race by human action , because there could not possibly be any proportionate grave reason to justify such a thing , they know exactly what they mean .
I mean , however , that the moral theologian knows what he means by `` permit '' .
Naturally , where one or the other of the effects of an action is uncertain , this has to be taken into account .
Mr. Philip Toynbee writes , for example , that `` in terms of probability it is surely as likely as not that mutual fear will lead to accidental war in the near future if the present situation continues .
Several of the replies to Mr. Toynbee , without conscious resort to the traditional terminology with regard to the permission of evil , succeed in restoring the actual context in which present moral and political decisions must be made , by distinguishing between choosing a great evil and choosing in danger of this evil .
Mr. Philip Toynbee affirms at one point that if he shared the anticipations of Orwell in Nineteen Eighty-Four , if he believed Communism was not only evil but `` also irredeemably evil '' , then he might `` think it right to do anything rather than to take the risk of a communist world .
Finally , just as no different issues are posed for thoughtful analysis by the foreshortening of time that may yet pass before the end of human life on this earth , but only stimulation and alarm to the imagination , the same thing must be said in connection with the question of what we may perhaps already be doing , by human action , to accelerate this end .
Much more than shelter , housing symbolizes social status , a sense of `` belonging '' , acceptance within a given group or neighborhood , identification with particular cultural values and social institutions , feelings of pride and worth , aspirations and hopes basic to human well-being .
Few business groups in recent years have come under heavier pressure to face these realities than real estate brokers and home builders .
How does the local realtor see himself in the context of housing restrictions based on race , religion or ethnic attachment ? ?
Recently , a group of the faculty at Wesleyan University's Public Affairs Center sought some answers to these questions .
For a number of years , Wesleyan has been drawing varied groups of political and business leaders into these informal discussions with members of the faculty and student body , attempting to explore and clarify aspects of their responsibility for public policy .
Such conversation quickly reveals an ethically significant ambivalence in the self-images held by most realtors .
A narrow professionalism
The rationale for this avoidance was most frequently expressed in economic terms ; ;
Obviously what we are confronted with here is the identification of `` professional '' with narrow skills and specialization , the effective servicing of a client , rather than responsiveness to the wider and deeper meaning and associations of one's work .
This narrow `` professionalism '' does not even fit the present realities of their situation , as the pressure of minorities and the power and respectability of the realtors increase .
It seems to us that choices exercised by realtors in moral situations center in at least three areas : ( 1 ) the various ways in which they interpret a particular social issue ; ;
( 1 ) Most of the realtors minimized their own understanding of and role in the racial issue , pleading that they only reflect the attitudes and intentions of their society .
Like business and university groups generally , these men had very limited knowledge of recent sociological and psychological studies and findings that might illumine the decisions they make .
Recent studies by the Commission on Race and Housing and others , however , point to a vast complex of factors that often do not warrant this conclusion .
Significantly , no realtor and few of the faculty present were familiar with any of the six volumes ( published by the University of California Press ) that present the commission's findings .
Relevant `` facts '' , however , extend beyond considerations of property values and maintenance of `` harmonious '' neighborhoods .
`` Against the grain of creation ''
Realtors in attendance at the colloquium expressed interest , for example , in Connecticut's new housing law as setting standards of equity that they would like `` to have to obey '' , but in support of which none had been willing to go on public record .
There are sins of omission as well as commission ; ;
In the states that have passed laws preventing discrimination in the sale or rental of housing , support by real estate associations for compliance and broadened coverage through additional legislation could help remove the label of `` social reformism '' that most realtors individually seem determined to avoid .
One of the roles of the social scientist , ethicist or theologian in our discussions with the realtors became that of encouraging greater awareness of the opportunities offered by the legal and political processes for the exercise of broad social responsibilities in their work .
That community of all creation is , then , the ultimate object of our loyalty and the concrete norm of all moral judgment .
A fragmented Society
As a theologian in the group pointed out , a professional was , before the modern period of technical specialization , one who `` professed '' to be a bearer and critic of his culture in the use of his particular skills .
If we look about the world today , we can see clearly that there are two especially significant factors shaping the future of our civilization : science and religion .
We may feel pessimistic at the outlook .
Atomic energy
Now we might have restricted the use of uranium bombs by controlling the sources of uranium because it is found in only a few places in the world .
Of course , there is also an optimistic side to the picture .
An octillion atoms
I calculated first that there are about an octillion atoms in the average human body ; ;
I saw that I would soon run out of buildings at this rate , so I decided to take another measure -- the whole state of Pennsylvania .
But we still have a long way to go .
A speck -- and space
Since these electrons are moving like planets , you may wonder whether there is an atomic sun at the center of the atom .
You may ask what else there is , and the answer is nothing -- nothing but empty space .
Music of the spheres
Then came the scientific revolution in the late 1920's .
The Island of Nantucket , part of the State of Massachusetts , lies about thirty-one miles southeast of its mother State .
To what extent and in what ways did Christianity affect the United States of America in the nineteenth century ? ?
A complete picture is impossible -- partly because of the limitations of space , partly because for millions of individuals who professed allegiance to the Christian faith data are unobtainable .
Although a complete picture cannot be given , we can indicate some aspects of life into which the Christian faith entered as at least one creative factor .
What in some ways was the most important aspect was the impact individually on the millions who constituted the nation .
What we can attempt with some hope of dependable conclusions is to point out the manner in which Christianity entered into particular aspects of the life of the nation .
Throughout the nineteenth century Christianity exerted its influence on American society as a whole primarily through the Protestantism of the older stock .
The American dream
The American dream was compounded of many strains .
Reform movements
Significantly , the initiation and leadership of a major proportion of the reform movements , especially those in the first half of the nineteenth century , came from men and women of New England birth or parentage and from either Trinitarian or Unitarian Congregationalism .
We should recall the number of movements for the service of mankind which arose from the kindred Evangelicalism of the British Isles and the Pietism of the Continent of Europe -- among them prison reform , anti-slavery measures , legislation for the alleviation of conditions of labour , the Inner Mission , and the Red Cross .
We cannot take the space to record all the efforts for the removal or alleviation of collective ills .
The anti-slavery movement
Long before 1815 the Christian conscience was leading some to declare slavery wrong and to act accordingly .
After 1815 anti-slavery sentiment mounted , chiefly among Protestants and those of Protestant background of the older stock .
The anti-slavery movement took many forms .
A marked impulse came to the anti-slavery movement through the Finney revivals .
Wendell Phillips ( 1811-1884 ) , from a prominent Massachusetts family , in his teens was converted under the preaching of Lyman Beecher .
The anti-slavery movement and other contemporary reforms and philanthropies were given leadership and financial undergirding by Arthur Tappan ( 1786-1865 ) and his younger brother , Lewis Tappan ( 1788-1873 ) .
Individuals possessing unusual gifts and great personal power were transmuted at death into awesome spirits ; ;
Thus , the emperor could draw on sources not available to those with less puissant ancestors .
This is the familiar system of `` cosmic government '' .
In this system , no man is exempt from obligations .
The common belief was that there existed one moral order , which included everything .
Modern Westerners have difficulty comprehending this fusion of moral and material , largely because in the West the historical trend has been to deny the connection .
In China , the magical system par excellence was Taoism .
Mahayana Buddhism was no exception to these prevailing magical concepts .
Nonmagical Confucianism was a secular , rational philosophy , but even with this different orientation it could not escape from the ethos of a cosmic government .
This , in brief , was the historical background out of which Zen emerged .
Actually , Zen owes more to Chinese Quietism than it does to Mahayana Buddhism .
Zen maintains that cognitive things are only the surface of experience .
It is important for an understanding of Zen to realize that the esoteric preoccupations of the select few cannot be the doctrine of the common man .
Exponents of Zen often insist that very early Zen doctrine opposed the rampant supernaturalism of China , and proposed instead a more mature , less credulous view of the universe .
A second tale shows still more clearly the kind of powers a truly spiritual monk could possess : `` On one occasion Yang Shan ( Kyo-zan ) saw a stranger monk flying through the air .
In the popular Chinese mind , Ch'an ( Zen ) was no exception to the ideas of coarse magic that dominated .
A closer look at modern Zen reveals many magical carryovers that are still part of popular Zen attitudes .
Pope Leo 13 , on the 13th day of December 1898 , granted the following indulgences : `` An indulgence of three hundred days is granted to all the Faithful who read the Holy Gospels at least a quarter of an hour .
Since the Catholic Church expresses such desire that the Sacred Scriptures be read , the following taken from the Holy Bible ( New Catholic Edition ) will prove a means of grace and a source of great spiritual blessing .
The need of the new birth
But as the One who called you is holy , be you also holy in all your behavior ; ;
Holiness without which no man will see God .
As it is written , There is not one just man ; ;
Therefore as through one man sin entered into the world and through sin death , and thus death has passed unto all men because all have sinned .
You also , when you were dead by reason of your offenses and sins .
And if our gospel also is veiled , it is veiled only to those who are perishing .
For his workmanship we are , created in Christ Jesus .
Of his own will he has begotten us by the word of truth .
Amen , amen , I say to thee , unless a man be born again of water ( symbol of the Word of God , see Ephesians 26 ) and the Spirit , he cannot enter into the kingdom of God .
Evidences of the new birth
Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God .
As many as received him were born of God .
Whoever is born of God does not commit sin ( That is , he does not practice sin .
We know that no one who is born of God commits sin .
If you know that he ( God ) is just ( righteous ) , know that everyone also who does what is just ( righteous ) has been born of him .
Everyone who loves is born of God , and knows God .
We know that we have passed from death to life , because we love the brethren .
All that is born of God overcomes the world ; ;
But grow in grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior , Jesus Christ .
I am convinced of this , that he who has begun a good work in you will bring it to perfection until the day of Christ Jesus .
Now to him who is able to preserve you without sin and to set you before the presence of his glory , without blemish , in gladness , to the only God our Savior , through Jesus Christ our Lord , belong glory and majesty , dominion and authority , before all time , and now , and forever .
Jesus answered and said to him ( Nicodemus ) `` Amen , amen , I say to thee , unless a man be born again , he cannot see the kingdom of God '' .
The nature of the new birth
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision but a new creation is of any account .
If then any man is in Christ , he is a new creature ( literally , `` He is a new creation ) , the former things have passed away ; ;
For by grace you have been saved through faith ; ;
I came that they may have life .
He who has the Son has the life .
He who believes in the Son ( Jesus Christ , the Son of God ) , has everlasting life .
Through which he has granted us the very great and precious promises , so that through them you may become partaker of the divine nature .
Christ in you , your hope of glory .
It is now no longer I that live , but Christ lives in me .
To have Christ dwelling through faith in your hearts .
The wind blows where it will , and thou hearest its sound but dost not know where it comes from or where it goes .
Amen , amen , I say to you , he who hears my word , and believes him who sent me , has life everlasting , and does not come to judgment , but has passed from death to life .
The means of the new birth
But to as many as received him he gave the power of becoming sons of God ; ;
A final word
Being convinced that salvation is alone by accepting Christ as Saviour , and being convicted by the Holy Spirit of my lost condition , I do repent of all effort to be saved by any form of good works , and just now receive Jesus as my personal Saviour and salvation as a free gift from Him .
You may do as you please with God now .
You can do likewise though Christ is not bodily present .
On the other hand , you may seek His favor , humble yourself before Him and beg His mercy , implore His forgiveness , forsake your sins , and abandon your whole life to Him .
God has already set the day when you will be in His hands .
I am a magazine ; ;
When I came into being , 15 years ago , I had one primary purpose : to help men and women everywhere to know God better , and through knowing Him better to become happier and more effective people .
When you read me , you are holding in your hands the product of many minds and hearts .
Fifteen years ago , there were no Guideposts at all .
To me , the explanation is very simple .
What is this something ? ?
All things are possible to God , but He chooses -- usually -- to work through people .
Fifteen years ago , troubled by the rising tide of materialism in the post-war world , a businessman and a minister asked themselves if there might not be a place for a small magazine in which men and women , regardless of creed or color , could set forth boldly their religious convictions and bear witness to the power of faith to solve the endless problems of living .
The businessman was Raymond Thornburg .
Compared to the big , established magazines , my first efforts seemed feeble indeed .
For example , early in my life , when one of my editorial workers wanted to find out how churches and philanthropic organizations met the needs of New York's down-and-outers , he didn't just ask questions .
That was nearly 13 years ago .
Many of you are familiar , I'm sure , with the story of my early struggles : the fire in January , 1947 , that destroyed everything -- even our precious list of subscribers .
That was when a remarkable woman , Teresa Durlach , came to my aid -- not so much with money , as with wisdom and courage .
And the 100,000 subscribers became a reality .
With our growth came expansion into new fields of service .
Thousands of free copies are sent each month to chaplains in the Armed Forces , to prison libraries and to hospitals everywhere .
Throughout these exciting years I have been fortunate for , although I have never offered great financial inducements , talent has found its way to me : William Boal who so ably organizes business operations ; ;
Searching for the best in spiritual stories , my roving editors cover not only the country , but the whole world .
Twice a month the editorial staff meets in New York for an early supper , then a long evening of idea-exchange .
There are people who travel long distances to assure my continued existence .
We have also seen the power of faith at work among us .
Perhaps it is not fair to mention some people without mentioning all .
Perhaps you think the editorial meetings are solemn affairs , a little sanctimonious ? ?
Each meeting starts with a prayer , offered spontaneously by one member of the group .
For you , readers , are an all-important part of the spiritual experiment that is Guideposts .
I am a magazine ; ;
May He bless you all .
Havana was filled with an excitement which you could see in the brightness of men's eyes and hear in the pitch of their voices .
And then Castro himself did come , bearded , smiling ; ;
At first I was happy to throw the support of our newspaper behind this man .
When it was my turn , I , too , printed the truth as I knew it about Batista , and rejoiced to see his regime topple .
I was full of hope as Fidel Castro came into Havana .
Castro's reforms ? ?
Economic aid ? ?
A suspicion was growing that Fidel Castro was a Communist .
What should I do about it , I asked myself ? ?
What should I do ? ?
Then one day , early in January , 1960 , I sat down at my desk , and suddenly I was aware of the crucifix .
`` You will lose the paper .
I knew in that moment that I did not have any choice .
Too often a beginning bodybuilder has to do his training secretly either because his parents don't want sonny-boy to `` lift all those old barbell things '' because `` you'll stunt your growth '' or because childish taunts from his schoolmates , like `` Hey lookit Mr. America ; ;
After all , a guy's gotta have a little ego ! !
Therefore it's a genuine pleasure to tell you about an entirely happy bodybuilder who has never had to train in secret has never heard one unkind word from his parents and never has been taunted by his schoolmates ! !
This happy , always smiling lad with the sunny disposition is our new Junior Mr. Canada -- Henri De Courcy .
Far from discouraging Henri , his parents urge him on to greater and greater accomplishments .
And they couldn't have entrusted Henri to better hands because `` le professeur '' knows his muscles from the sterno-cleido mastoideus of the neck right down to the tibialis anticus of the leg and better still , he knows just what exercises work best for them and what Weider principles to combine them with for fast , fast muscle growth .
That's because the good professor teaches only Weider methods at his famous Montreal Health Studio which is located at 1821 Mt. Royal East in Montreal .
Now when Henri was just 12 he was only 4' 10'' '' tall and weighed an astounding 72 pounds , and his greatest desire was to pack on some weight .
Well , sir they did real great ! !
Henri has always had shapely legs from swimming and water skiing and really doesn't have to work them very much .
That's when he went to Professor Claude .
So right away Claude introduced Henri to his famous `` moon '' bench and proceeded to teach him his first Push-Pull Super-Set consisting of the wide-grip Straight-Arm Pullover ( the `` pull '' part of the Push-Pull Super-Set ) which dramatically widens the ribcage and strongly affects the muscles of the upper back and chest and the collar-to-collar Bench Press which specifically works on the chest to build those wide , Reeves-type `` gladiator '' pecs , while stimulating the upper lats and frontal deltoids .
As you can see , in this Push-Pull Super Set the entire chest-back-shoulder area is vigorously exercised in alternate sectors by alternate exercises so the complete torso remains pumped-up all the time ! !
Now when Henri has completed four complete Push-Pull Super-Sets No. 1 , the professor allows him about a five-minute rest period before starting him on four complete Push-Pull Super-Sets No. 2 .
Super-Set No. 2 is made up of similar exercises , but this time done with dumbbells , and using both `` moon '' and flat benches .
The `` pull '' exercise in this Super-Set is the one-dumbbell Bent-Arm Pullover .
In the third Push-Pull Super-Set the `` push '' exercise is the widegrip Pushup Between Bars , while the `` pull '' exercise is the Moon Bench Lateral Raise with bent arms .
The Pushup done in this manner is the greatest pectoral-ribcage stretcher ever invented ! !
But as you can also see , it's not a painful exercise at all , because Henri De Courcy -- the `` happy '' bodybuilder -- looks as though he were having the time of his life ! !
The last exercise of Roland Claude's prescribed program for Henri is a single exercise , done in individual sets with a bit longer pause between sets .
This is the kind of chest that invariably wins contests ; ;
So with four complete Push-Pull Super-Sets No. 1 , four of No. 2 , four of No. 3 and four to six sets of the Incline Bench Press , you can see that Henri De Courcy has had a terrific mass-building , muscle-shaping , torso-defining workout that cannot be improved upon .
Physique contests are rarely won on muscle size alone .
Now good definition is one thing that all of us can acquire with occasional high-set , high-rep , light-weight workouts .
Often these exercises work well for some bodybuilders but less spectacularly for others .
The exercise I shall discuss in this -- the first of a new series of articles on muscle definition-specialization of a particular body part -- is the One Leg Lunge .
It is the one exercise that drastically influences the definition of the thighs at the hipline -- that mark of the champion that sets him apart from all other bodybuilders ; ;
Definition of the thighs at the uppermost part is quite commonly seen in most championship Olympic lifters which is easily understandable .
But for purely definition purposes -- used in conjunction with your regular Squatting , Leg Curling , Leg Extensor programs -- a heavy weight is not needed .
Really there is no reason why this fine exercise should not find its way into your leg program at all times , for the following suggestions show why it is so effective : 1 .
It's a complete thigh contraction-extension exercise .
It places terrific tension on the leg muscles from start to finish of each repetition .
It improves over-all balance and control for the bodybuilder , and helps to make Squats more easily and more correctly performed .
It increases flexibility of the legs .
It speeds muscle growth and power development even for the advanced bodybuilder because each hip and leg is exercised separately , thus enabling a massive , concentrated effort to be focused on each .
You'll need your Weider Power Stands for this fine exercise and here's the way it's done : 1 .
Place your Power Stands in position and adjust their height so that this will correspond to the height of your shoulders when you are in a deep leg split as for a heavy Clean .
Place a suitably-loaded barbell across them ; ;
Now raise the weight by straightening your front leg , without moving your feet .
After you have taken a breather , reverse the position of your legs so that the front thigh of the previous exercise is now to the rear , and the rear thigh now to the front , and perform the same movement in the same manner .
That's the One-Leg Lunge in a nutshell .
Oh , you'll wobble and weave quite a bit at first .
Although I suggested that you hold the bar at the back of the neck there's no reason why you shouldn't make some experiments with the bar held in front of the neck .
The most beautiful bed of pansies I've seen was in a South Dakota yard on a sizzling day .
The more I talked with him , the more convinced I became that that was the secret of their riotous blooming .
I asked him if he took seeds from his own plants .
His soil was `` nothing special '' , just prairie land , but he had harrowed in compost until it was loose , spongy and brown-black .
Nothing is easier to grow from seed than pansies .
I like to make a seedbed right in the open , though many people start them successfully in cold frames .
For my seedbed I use good garden soil with a little sand added to encourage rooting .
When the first sprinkling of green appears I remove the board .
When they have 4 to 6 leaves and are thrifty little plants , it's time to set them out where they are to remain .
Pansies are gluttons .
They need mulch .
When winter comes be ready with additional mulch .
Don't miss the pansies that appear from time to time through the winter .
The day will come , in midsummer , when you find your plants becoming `` leggy '' , running to tall-growing foliage at the expense of blossoms .
A second and also good practice is to shear off the tops , leaving an inch high stub with just a leaf or two on each branch .
Probably no one needs to tell you that the way to stop all bloom is to let the blossoms go to seed .
Here is a word of advice when you go shopping for your pansy seeds .
Many people think that pansies last only a few weeks , then their period of growth and bloom is over .
Would you like to grow exhibition pansies ? ?
Pansies have character .
A salad with greens and tomato is a popular and wonderfully healthful addition to a meal , but add an avocado and you have something really special .
You will find that avocado is unlike any other fruit you have ever tasted .
Naturally dormant and no spray danger
One of the most attractive things about avocados is that they do not require processing of any kind .
Nutritious and a cholesterol reducer
Dr. Wilson C. Grant , of the Veterans' Administration Hospital , Coral Gables , Florida , and the University of Miami School of Medicine , set out to discover if avocados , because of their high content of unsaturated fatty acids , would reduce the cholesterol of the blood in selected patients .
Five , four , three , two , one , fire ! !
Never before has the introduction of a weapon caused so much apprehension and fear .
A great many writers are bewitched by the apparently overwhelming advantage an attacker would have if he were to strike with complete surprise using nuclear rockets .
Nuclear weapons have given the world the means for self-destruction in hours or days ; ;
However , because this vulnerability is mutual , it is to the advantage of neither side to destroy the opponent's cities , at least so long as the opponent has nuclear weapons with which to effect reprisal .
ICBMs have given us a capability which could be used in two different ways .
If our national interest lies in being able to fight and win a war rather than committing national suicide , then we must take a much more penetrating look at ballistic missiles .
Missiles are very valuable weapons , but they also have their too little known limitations .
Because of a missile's ballistic trajectory , the location of a fixed target must be known quite accurately .
Even if all these operations could be performed instantaneously , the ICBM still has a time of flight to the target of about 30 minutes .
Because of this , it would appear inevitable that an increasing percentage of strategic missiles will seek self-protection in mobility -- at least until missile defenses are perfected which have an exceedingly high kill probability .
In order to destroy the enemy's mobile , moving , or imprecisely located strategic forces , we must have a hunter-killer capability in addition to our missiles .
It seems reasonable that if general nuclear war is not to be one cataclysmic act of burning each other's citizens to cinders , we must have a manned strategic force of long-endurance aircraft capable of going into China or Russia to find and destroy their strategic forces which continued to threaten us .
Let us suppose the Russians decide to build a rail-mobile ICBM force .
An aircraft with a load of small nuclear weapons could very conceivably be given a mission to suppress all trains operating within a specified geographic area of Russia -- provided that we had used some of our ICBMs to degrade Russia's air defenses before our bombers got there .
Why , then , aren't we planning a larger , more important role for manned military aircraft ? ?
Survivability of our strategic forces ( Polaris , mobile and hardened Minuteman , hardened Atlas and Titan , and airborne Skybolt ) means that it will take some time , perhaps weeks , to destroy a strategic force .
The forces which survive the initial attack must be found and destroyed .
Some day , many years in the future , true spacecraft will be able to find and destroy mobile targets .
However , the aircraft which we have today are tied to large , `` soft '' airfields .
This is the point on which so many people have written off the aircraft in favor of the missile .
There are four rather obvious ways to reduce or eliminate the vulnerability of aircraft on the ground :
Put aircraft in `` bomb-proof '' hangars when they are on the ground .
Build long-range aircraft which can take off from small ( 3,000-foot ) airfields with runways .
Use nuclear propulsions to keep our long-range military aircraft in the air for the majority of their useful life .
Using very high thrust-to-weight ratio engines , develop a vertical-takeoff-and-landing ( VTOL ) long-range military aircraft .
We have the technology today with which to build aircraft shelters which could withstand at least 200 Aj .
Large , long-range bombers can be developed which would have the capability to take off from 3,000-foot runways , but they would require more powerful engines than we have today .
This same preoccupation with missiles at the expense of aircraft has resulted in our half-hearted effort to develop nuclear propulsion for aircraft .
If , for some reason such as economy , we are not going to develop aircraft nuclear propulsion with a sense of national urgency , then we should turn our effort to developing jet engines with a thrust-to-weight ratio of 12 or 15 to one .
When aircraft are no longer helpless on airfields , they are no longer vulnerable to Aj .
We would have the means to seek out and destroy the enemy's force -- whether it were fixed or mobile .
Our first necessity , at the very outset of war , is post-attack reconnaissance .
Even if this is some day possible , there remains the 30-minute time of flight of a missile to its overseas target .
Pre-attack reconnaissance is vital but only post-attack reconnaissance will allow us to terminate the war favorably .
It would be even more valuable because that same aircraft could immediately destroy any targets it discovered -- no need to wait for a missile to come all the way from the United States with the chance that the target , if it were mobile , would be gone .
A large aircraft , such as the B-52 or B-70 , could carry perhaps 50 or 100 small nuclear weapons .
It is our lack of extreme accuracy which forces the use of very large yield nuclear weapons .
Today we have side-looking radar which has such high resolution that the radar picture clearly shows individual buildings , runways , taxi-ways , separate spans of bridges , etc. .
If we fail to develop the means to hunt down and destroy the enemy's military force with extreme care and precision , and if war comes in spite of our most ardent desires for peace , our choice of alternatives will be truly frightening .
The lyric beauties of Schubert's Trout Quintet -- its elemental rhythms and infectious melodies -- make it a source of pure pleasure for almost all music listeners .
The many and frequent performances of the Trout serve to emphasize the dual nature of its writing .
Whether considered alone or in relation to other editions , COLH 40 is a document of prime importance .
Schnabel's emphasis on structural clarity , his innate rhythmic vibrancy , and impetuous intensity all tend to stamp his reading as a symphonic one .
About the Pro Arte's contribution I am less happy .
Turning to the more modern versions , Curzon's ( London ) offers the most sophisticated keyboard work .
The Glazer-Fine Arts edition ( Concert-Disc ) is a model of lucidity and organization .
The Hephzibah Menuhin-Amadeus Quartet ( Angel ) and Victor Babin-Festival Quartet ( RCA Victor ) editions give us superlative string playing ( both in symphonic style ) crippled by unimaginative piano playing .
Returning once again to the Schnabel reissue , I am beguiled anew by the magnificence of this pianist's musical penetration .
From the beginning of commercial recording , new discs purported to be indistinguishable from The Real Thing have regularly been put in circulation .
Since the concept of high fidelity became important some dozen years ago , the claims of technical improvements have multiplied tenfold .
Records sound like records because they provide a different sort of experience than live music .
Command's new Brahms Second is a major effort to make a record that sounds like a real orchestra rather than a copy of one .
The easiest way to describe this release is to say that it reproduces an interesting and effective Steinberg performance with minimal alteration of its musical values .
All of this would be wasted , of course , if the performance lacked authority and musical distinction .
Those accustomed to broader , more romantic statements of the symphony can be expected to react strongly when they hear this one .
The engineering provides exactly the support needed for such a result .
At the Westminster KC Dog Show in Madison Square Garden , New York on the second day , the Finals of the Junior Class brought out the most competitive competition in the history of this Class .
Forty-six of the 53 Juniors who mailed in entries were present .
As has been the custom for the past several years , John Cross , Jr. , Bench Show Chmn. of Westminster , arranged for the Juniors' meeting before the Class , and invited two speakers from the dog world to address them .
Mrs. William H. Long , Jr. speaks
In her opening remarks Mrs. Long also welcomed the Juniors and stated , `` There isn't any other show quite like Westminster .
Twenty years ago her daughter Betsey Long , then 13 years of age , won the Grand Challenge Trophy , Children's Handling Class ( as they were called then ) at Westminster .
Speaking from long years of experience , Mrs. Long advised the Juniors : `` When showing dogs ceases to be fun and excitement , stop ! !
Right attitude essential ! !
`` Take away your attitude '' , said Mrs. Long , `` and what have you left ? ?
`` The reason you are in the ring today is to show your ability to present to any judge the most attractive picture of your dog that the skillful use of your aids can produce .
`` Your aids are your attitude , which comes through your voice , your hands and legs -- voice to encourage , discourage or whatever the need may be ; ;
Mrs. Long wished all the Juniors luck in the Class and stated , `` Have fun ! !
Harvey Barcus , second speaker
Mr. Barcus spoke on the subject of scholarships for Juniors -- with which he is very familiar .
`` Junior Showmanship is an extremely worthy project and should be earnestly encouraged '' ! !
In closing , Mr. Barcus also wished all the Juniors luck in their Class .
Westminster Show Notes
Before the Juniors entered the ring the Steward announced that after all Juniors had moved their dogs around the ring and set them up , they could relax with their dogs .
Anne Hone Rogers judges 28th finals
As the Juniors entered the ring , Mr. Spring , the announcer , stated over the public-address system that this was the 28th year that Westminster has held the Finals of the Junior Competition .
( The purpose of the Junior Showmanship Competition is to teach and encourage Juniors to become good sportsmen .
It seemed an almost impossible job for Miss Rogers to select 4 winners from the 46 Juniors entered .
After the judge moved all the dogs individually , she selected several from the group and placed them in the center of the ring .
International Champion of the year
Betty is 16 years of age and had several wins to her credit last year .
Other winners
Susan Hackmann , age 14 , from Baltimore , Md. , showing a Dachshund , was 3rd .
Karen Marcmann , age 16 , Trapp , Penna. , showing a Keeshond was 4th .
Most Juniors who were entered in the Finals are seasoned campaigners and not only show and win in Junior Classes but score in the Breed Classes as well .
Entries increasing -- requirements raised
Percy Roberts , a leading judge will not be at the International Show this year for the Junior Judging Contest as he has been invited to judge in Australia in March .
Judging class for intermediates proposed
Such a Class was tried out successfully at the Westchester KC Show recently .
We suggested this Class in the horse world and it was accepted immediately and included in the programs of horse shows .
This Class can be just as successful in the dog world if it is given a chance .
More volunteer handlers needed to judge
Some years ago this Class was judged by celebrities who knew nothing of what was required of a Junior's ability to show a dog .
Other awards for Juniors
The American Pointer Club is still continuing to donate trophies to Juniors who win at Junior Showmanship Classes with Pointers .
Traveling through the South -- over 16,000 miles -- with two Great Danes , an Afghan , and a Persian kitten , we've worked up a regular routine for acceptance at motels .
My husband enters the motel office , signs up for a room , and then solemnly asks the proprieter if he accepts pets .
We've never been refused ! !
Once settled , we're careful to walk the dogs in an out of the way spot , keep them under control in the room , and feed and bench them where they can't do any harm to the furnishings or the furniture .
In the morning we leave the room looking as neat as a pin ! !
Many a motel owner -- when we've stopped there again -- has remembered us and has said he preferred our dogs to most children .
So many times I have wondered why veterinarians do not wipe the table clean before each new canine patient is placed on it for examination .
At one time , to most Americans , unless they were fortunate enough to live near a body of navigable water , boats were considered the sole concern of fishermen , rich people , and the United States Navy .
Today the recreational boating scene is awash with heartening statistics which prove the enormous growth of that sport .
The spectacular upsurge in pleasure boating is markedly evident , expectedly , in the areas where boats have always been found : the natural lakes , rivers , and along the nation's coastline .
Developed as a result of the multi-purpose resources control program of the government , vast , man-made bodies of water represent a kind of glorious fringe benefit , providing boating and fishing havens all over the country .
No matter how determined or wealthy boating lovers of the Southwest had been , for example , they could never have created anything approaching the fifty square-mile Lake Texoma , located between Texas and Oklahoma , which resulted when the Corp of Army Engineers dammed the Red River .
Where an opportunity to enjoy boating has not been created by bringing bodies of water to the people , means have been found to take the people and their boats to the water .
Boatmen lucky enough to have facilities for year-'round anchorage for their craft , will recall the tedious procedure of loading their gear into the car , driving to the water , and making trip after trip to transfer the gear to the boat .
And trailers for boats are not what they started out to be ten years ago .
The variety of craft on the country's waters today is overwhelming .
There are canoes ideal for fishing in protected waters or for camping trips .
You may have your boat of wood , canvas , plywood , plastic , or metal .
Designers and manufacturers have produced models for purchasers who run the gamut from a nautical version of the elderly Pasadena lady who never drove more than five miles an hour on her once-a-month ride around the block , to the sportiest boatman who insists on all the dash , color , flair and speed possible to encompass in a single boat .
American technology in engine and hull design is largely responsible for the plentiful interest in American boating .
Russia , whose technology is not quite primitive , is still in the dark ages when it comes to improving the outboard motor , for instance .
Now here is truly a marvel .
Great thought has been given to making life easier for the growing boating population of the country ; ;
Terms range from one to five years and the interest rates and down payments run about the same as for automobiles .
Outboard motors , insurance , and boat repairs may also be financed in the same way as boats .
When the automobile was in its embryonic stage , such roads as existed were pretty much open roads with the tacit understanding that horses should not be unduly terrified being about the only rule governing where , when and how fast a car could go .
As the ungoverned days of the automobile and the airplane are long since relegated to the past , so is the carefree attitude toward what a boatman may and may not do ; ;
Laws on boating vary according to the state in which the craft is to be used and according to its horsepower .
State numbering laws differ from each other in many ways .
Generally , states reserve for communities the right to have local ordinances regulating speed and other activities .
Hand in hand with the legislative program is the industry's self originated and directed safety program .
A primary factor in the success of the safety program has been the enthusiastic cooperation of the individual manufacturers .
Industry interest in safety goes even farther .
In addition to these activities , the NAEBM , with headquarters at 420 Lexington Avenue , New York City , as well as other associations and individual manufacturers , provide and distribute films , booklets , and public services in regard to proper boat handling and safety afloat .
It is important to note the work of the United States Power Squadrons and the U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary .
As America on wheels was responsible for an industry of motor courts , motels , and drive-in establishments where you can dine , see a movie , shop , or make a bank deposit , the ever-increasing number of boating enthusiasts have sparked industries designed especially to accommodate them .
The word marina was coined by NAEBM originally to describe a waterfront facility where recreational boats could find protection and basic needs to lay over in relative comfort .
Yachtel , a relatively new word , indicates a waterfront type of hotel where a yachtsman may dock and find overnight accommodations on the premises as well as other services .
Boatyards which also provide some of the above facilities may rightfully be called marinas .
A recent survey disclosed there are about 4,000 commercially and municipally operated marinas and boatyards in the United States , the majority of which are equipped to handle outboard boats .
The design of a mechanical interlocking frame is much like a mechanical puzzle , but once understood , the principles can be applied to any track and signal arrangement .
Close behind the plane of the tappets are the locking bars .
In the sides of the tappets are notches with sloping sides , and connection between the tappets and locking bars consist of cams called `` dogs '' .
Here's how the scheme works : Suppose the operator pulls the lever to clear a particular signal .
Interlocking signals are normally at stop or `` red '' position , and a lever must be pulled to `` clear '' the signal .
There are other basic rules .
Figs. 1-6 show typical arrangements of track and signals .
By studying the track-signal diagrams you'll note several other details .
So much for the prototype .
The interlocking frame we built at the model railroader workshop and then installed on Paul Larson's railroad follows the Fig. 1 scheme and is shown beginning in Fig. 7 , page 65 , and in the photos .
Frame
When cutting the pieces , dress the ends smooth , and square with a smooth file or sanding disk .
Now lay 12 pieces of Af cut 5-3/4'' '' long side by side but separated by 12 pieces of the same material 1/2'' '' sq. .
Cap this assembly ( with spacing bars in place ) with a Af bar .
Now cut five Af locking bar spacers ( which run horizontally ) .
Mark and center-punch all the holes required for screws to hold this assembly together .
Now unsolder and disassemble the frame except for the two 12'' '' and the first two 3-3/4'' '' bars ( `` A '' and `` B '' pieces ) , which are soldered together .
Drill 20 No. 47 holes in the upper piece `` A '' as shown in Fig. 7 .
Now reassemble the frame , using Af roundhead steel screws and nuts .
Tappets and locking bars
To each tappet except 6 and 8 , solder a Af piece of brass and file to the tapered shape shown in Figs. 6 and 8 .
Fitting the locking bars and making the locking pieces is a rather tedious job since stop screws , tappets and locking bars must be removed and replaced many times .
The order of fitting is not too important .
Fig. 8 gives the dimensions for locating the dog-pin holes .
Place the locking bar in proper position and insert tappet 3 .
'' thick and 1'' '' dia. fitted on a 1/8'' '' dia. mandrel .
Chuck a 2'' '' or 3'' '' piece of 1/8'' '' dia. drill rod in a drill press or electric hand tool .
Scientists say that the world and everything in it are based on mathematics .
Hot rodding is a science .
A mathematical formula is nothing more than a pattern for solving a specific problem .
The first step in using a formula is to insert the numerical values of the factors involved in their correct positions in the formula .
Equations for rodding formulas are not complicated .
The symbol for division is a straight line that separates two numbers placed one above the other .
.
The symbol for subtraction is the standard minus sign .
Addition is indicated by the + symbol .
When solving an equation that involves division as well as other steps , do all the division steps first to reduce those parts of the equation to their numerical value .
For use in formulas , fractions should be converted to their decimal equivalents .
The various mathematical processes can be simplified by carrying the results to only two or three decimal places .
Some formulas contain `` constants '' .
Rodding formulas apply to many phases of the sport .
Engine displacement
Factors involved in the displacement formula are the bore diameter of the engine's cylinders , the length of the piston stroke , the number of cylinders in the engine , and a constant .
Actually , the engine displacement formula is the standard formula for computing the volume of a cylinder of any type with an added factor that represents the number of cylinders in the engine .
The formula is : Af .
For example , let's consider a standard 283 cubic inch Chevy Aj .
To arrive at the answer , multiply the numbers together by starting at the left of the group and working to the right .
.
Cylinder volume is determined in exactly the same manner as for the displacement formula : Af .
To measure the volume of one of the combustion chambers in the cylinder head , install the valves and spark plug in the chamber and support the head so that its gasket surface is level .
The amount of liquid poured into the chamber is determined by subtracting the quantity still in the beaker when the chamber is full from the original quantity .
The volume of the cylinder opening in the head gasket must be computed by multiplying its area in square inches by the gasket's thickness in thousandths of an inch .
Another thing that must be taken into consideration is the volume of the area between the top of the piston and the top of the cylinder block when the piston is in top dead center position .
After the factors just described have been computed , they are applied to the following formula : Af
.
This method of computing compression ratio cannot be used accurately for engines that have pistons with either domed or irregularly shaped heads .
Gear ratio -- speed relationships
To simplify the formulas a representative symbol is substituted for each of the factors .
MPH for Car speed
, for Engine crankshaft speed
, for Rear axle gear ratio
, for Tire size
.
To determine car speed for a given combination of engine speed , gear ratio , and tire size , the formula is : Af .
.
.
Orlando , Fla. , Feb. 2
Other good miles have been by Debonnie ( Dale Frost-Debby Hanover ) and Prompt Time ( Adios-On Time ) in 2:28-:36 ; ;
Stardel ( Star's Pride-Starlette Hanover ) , 2:34 , looks quite promising .
Trackdown ( Torrid-Mighty Lady ) has worked a mile in 2:33.3 .
Thor Hanover ( Adios-Trustful Hanover ) is a wonderful looking prospect and another good individual , with solid , rugged conformation , good , flat bone and excellent feet .
Gamecock ( Tar Heel-Terka Hanover ) is another promising colt , and his best time is 2:32.2 .
Hustler ( Knight Dream-Torkin ) is a playful bay rascal of a colt , not the best gaited , but he surely can pace and is right there with them , and sometimes leading them , in the best miles .
Strongheart ( Adios-Direct Gal ) , a fair-looking sorrel colt , knows nothing but pace and has been right there in the best miles .
The colts in Simpson's stable have little if anything on the fillies , especially the pacers .
Mrs. Freight ( Knight Dream-Miss Reed ) shows promise and does it in good form , and her best time is about 2:35 .
Pete Dailey has four promising 2-year-old pacers .
Most of Billy Haughton's 2-year-olds have worked from 2:40 to 2:35 .
Brief Candle ( Harlan-Marcia ) has gone in 2:37 ; ;
I have just seen Debonnie and Prompt Time work a mile in 2:34 , last quarter in :35.3 .
Rain on Friday prevented many workouts , but there were a few miles of note on Thursday .
Sam Caton's Butterwyn ( Scotch Victor-Butler Wyn ) , a light bay filly , knows nothing but trot and has worked on the half-mile in 2:30-:36 .
Jimmy Jordon is high on Adios Scarlet ( Adios-Rena Grattan ) and she sure looks good as she goes by .
Flick Nipe's and Neil Engle's Miss Phone ( Galophone-Prissy Miss ) is a fine-looking filly with good disposition and good gait , and she has worked up to date in 2:46 .
Del Mar , Calif. , Feb. 3
While 2-year-olds are still gaining most of the attention at the track , green horses are starting to go a bit , and Jimmy Cruise has several that can really make it .
Dewey Urban has a clever green trotter in Dr. Orin I. , 3 ( by Yankee Hanover ) , his latest mile in 2:20 ; ;
The average reader of this magazine owns more than one gun ( we ran a survey to find out ) but he's always on the lookout for new and better arms .
First on my own list would be two arms -- a rifle and a handgun -- that qualify as new in the strictest sense .
Bill Ruger's long-awaited Deerstalker ( under $110 ) is a new rifle action in a caliber that upsets all the modern theory of high-velocity fans ; ;
Ruger reports that on his recent African safari the little Magnum cartridge was a real work horse .
The deadliness of the Magnum in a rifle comes as no surprise to me .
Ruger learned that this was because the higher velocity achieved in a long barrel was upsetting the shape of the unjacketed revolver bullet .
Three more deer have fallen to this same gun , and all were one-shot kills .
If ever a rifle met the needs of the whitetail hunter , this is it .
The second really new development this year was a revolver handling a different sort of varmint load -- the
Remington Jet Magnum Center Fire .
, 40-grain bullet is rated at a very hot 2,460 fps , and it's the flattest shooting of any revolver cartridge , with a mid-range rise of about an inch over a 100-yard range .
The most intriguing aspect of the S & W Magnum chambered for the new Jet is that it can also fire standard
rim-fires by means of adapter sleeves in the chambers .
Hunting rifles , '61
Newcomers to the American hunter are the Browning group of bolt-action , high-power rifles .
, S & H , , and .
.
Colt's center-fire 1961 rifles are all made with Sako actions , regardless of caliber .
have the short action ; ;
and , the medium action , and the
, Af and the Magnums , the long action ( about $135 for the Standard Coltsman and $200 for the Custom version ) .
High Standard has introduced a
auto , the Sport-King , in two grades -- field and special ( less than $45 and just over $45 , respectively ) .
Among
Magnum Rim-Fire rifles , 1961's lone newcomer was the Kodiak Model 260 autoloader ( around $60 ) .
Magnum rim-fires .
Marlin has made two contributions to the harvest of new offerings .
rim-fire auto with a tubular magazine that holds 18 Long Rifles .
auto , this one with a seven- or 12-shot clip .
Once again the Mossberg Targo outfit has appeared , but this time as a bolt-action rifle-shotgun combination .
shotshells -- to break the little Targo clay targets .
The Targo is a good outfit for fun shooting or for economic wing-shooting practice , but it's tougher than it looks to run up a score on the clay birds .
Big Magnum calibers appeared in the Remington line for 1961 , with the addition of the and to the list of Model 725's .
A shortened version of the highly regarded Remington 742 autoloader also appeared in 1961 .
The latest versions of the famous Savage Model 99 are the 99 Featherweight ( about $125 ) and the 99 Deluxe ( under $135 ) , which have a top-tang safety and improved trigger design .
Beginners' guns , '61
rim-fires .
Marlin's latest is also designed for the beginning shooter , although it's a full-sized rifle with plenty of barrel weight and ample stock .
single-shot Remington 514C ( around $20 ) , which comes with a 21-inch barrel and a short -- 12-1/2-inch -- stock ; ;
A beginner's shotgun has also been introduced this year .
Shotguns , '61
The Colt line now includes a new scattergun , the Standard or Custom Pump Model ( about $90 and $150 , respectively ) in 12 , 16 and 20 .
Firearms International has introduced another import , this one from Finland .
High Standard has also added two models to its line .
Mossberg's latest contribution to the field is the Model 500 ( from $73.50 ) ; ;
Handguns , '61
Jet -- which I coupled with the Deerstalker carbine as one of the year's two biggest developments -- few significant innovations appeared among 1961's handguns .
Livery stable -- J. Vernon , prop. '' .
The southward route was the classic run in California , and the most fashionable .
Gazing too long at the scenery could be tiring , so halts were contrived between meals .
In spring and in autumn the run was made for a group of botanists which included an old friend of mine .
My friend often breakfasted with Vernon on the morning of the regular tallyho run .
The hostler would have the table ready and a pot of coffee hissing on the stove ; ;
In the 1890's the Palace Hotel began serving an oyster dish named after its manager , John C. Kirkpatrick .
After the meal , he and his guests went out to inspect the rig ; ;
But for the start of the Santa Cruz run , the whip fell .
Club Kedgeree
The omelet named for Ernest Arbogast , the Palace's chef , was even more in demand .
omelet Arbogast
Louis Sherry once stayed a fortnight at the Palace , and he was so pleased with omelet Arbogast that he introduced it at his restaurant in New York J. Pierpont Morgan had come in his private train to San Francisco , to attend an Episcopal convention , and brought the restaurateur with him .
In the grand court of the Palace , notable for its tiers of Moorish galleries that looked down on the maelstrom of vehicles below , Vernon's station was at the entrance .
Promptly at seven he would clatter out of the court with twelve in the tallyho .
The road maps of the region have changed since 1905 ; ;
Vernon kept an account book with a list of all the establishments that he thought worthy of patronage .
There was Wright's , for one , lost amongst trees , its wide verandas strewn with rockers .
Wright's devil sauce
Every winter a kegful of this sauce was made and placed at the end of a row of four other kegs in the cellar , so that when its turn came , it was properly mellowed .
Vineyards and orchards also grew around Wright's , and deer were rather a nuisance ; ;
Dwellers thereabouts preferred to get their apple pies at the local bakery , which had a brick oven fired with redwood billets .
Wright's apple pie
Set the apples in the pastry-lined tin , spread over them three tablespoonfuls of softened butter , with as much brown sugar , a sprinkling of nutmeg , and a fresh bay leaf , then lay on a cover of pastry , and gild it with beaten yolk of egg .
Those who have never traveled the width and length of this land cannot conceive , on the basis of textbook description alone , the overwhelming space and variety of this country held together under one government .
To hope to cover just one region of this land and to enjoy all of its sights and events and , of course , to bring back pictures of your experiences , requires advance planning .
Use this section to plan now to make the most of your vacation in photogenic America .
The Northeast
By automobile from New York , for example , you can take a one or two-day tour to Annapolis , Maryland to see the colonial homes and the U.S. Naval Academy ( where you can shoot the dress parade on Wednesdays ) ; ;
New England deserves as much of your vacation time as you can afford with such areas as Cape Cod providing wonderful beaches , artists' colonies and quaint townships .
At Sturbridge Village , Massachusetts , you'll find a completely-restored New England town .
One of the most exciting ways to end a Northeast vacation would be with a week in New York City .
Now you're ready for a whirlwind sightseeing tour of America's most exciting city .
Photographing in the Northeast
Around New England , you'll no doubt want a color shot of one of the picturesque lighthouses .
The South
Of special interest this anniversary year of the war between the states are the many Civil War battlefields where , likely as not , you'll catch some memorial re-enactments .
Florida provides tropical scenes unequalled in the United States .
One of the most delightful spots in a southern tour is the city of New Orleans .
For restoration of early American life the places to visit are Williamsburg , Jamestown and Yorktown , Virginia .
The great state of Texas offers metropolitan attractions such as the Dallas Fair Park with its art and natural history museums .
The Great Smoky Mountains is another area of the South well worth a visit .
Beautiful homes and gardens are trademarks of the South and cities particularly noted for them are Charleston , S.C. , Natchez , Miss. , and Savannah , Ga. .
Picturing the south
Exposure problems may occur in these forest areas where uneven lighting results from shafts of sunlight filtering through the overhead branches .
Try some closeups on Southern blossoms to provide a welcome contrast with the many long-view scenics you'll be making .
For shooting the interiors of the famous ante-bellum Southern mansions make sure your equipment includes a tripod .
For some unusual photographic subjects , if your vacation takes you nearby , try these events : the 600-mile auto race in Charlotte , N.C. , , on May 27 ; ;
The Midwest
Wisconsin Dells , where fantastically scenic rocks carved by the Wisconsin River are overgrown with fern and other foliage , rates a stopover when traveling from Chicago .
The farmlands forming the heart of America stretch out across the Midwest from Chicago .
Another spot with an image-provoking name is the Black Hills where you can visit the old frontier mining town of Deadwood .
Of course , while in this vicinity you won't want to miss a visit to Mount Rushmore National Memorial where on the side of a mountain are the famous sculptures of Presidents Washington , Lincoln , Jefferson and Theodore Roosevelt .
In Missouri ( which we are including in our general Midwest region ) you can glance into Mark Twain's birthplace at Hannibal , see the landmarks of his life and writings and visualize where Huck Finn hatched his boyish mischief .
Similarly in Illinois there is Lincoln country to be seen -- his tomb and other landmarks .
Minnesota , fabled land of waters , is in itself , ideal vacationland , having within its borders 10,000 lakes ! !
Mementoes of the Old West recall the days of Wyatt Earp in Dodge City , Nebraska , where present-day cowboys add a colorful human interest note to your vacation shooting .
Of current interest is Abilene , Kansas , the birthplace of ex-President Eisenhower .
For a resort area , Mackinack Island , Michigan , is the place to visit .
Pictures of the Midwest
Another memo for sightseers : bring your camera along to museums .
Special events and their dates which will make interesting shooting in the Midwest area , include the following :
A re-enactment of the Battle of Lexington , May 18th at Lexington , Missouri ; ;
For early vacationers there's the fun-filled Fishing Derby in Hot Springs , Arkansas , April 19-23 , and the Arkansas Band Festival in Hot Springs , April 20-22 .
The West
In California is located one of the most popular of the national parks -- Yosemite .
In the Utah area are Zion National Park and Bryce Canyon National Park .
Colorado's Grand Canyon , probably the most famous landmark of the United States , can be the highpoint of your Western vacation .
Built upon seven hills , Istanbul , like Rome , is one of the most ancient cities in the world , filled with splendor and contrast .
Founded in the Ninth Century B.C. it was called Byzantium 200 years later when Byzas , ruler of the Megarians , expanded the settlement and named it after himself .
Start of tour
Directly across from the Gardens I found a bus stop sign for T 4 and rode it down to the Bosphorus , with the sports center on my left just before I reached the water and the entrance to Dolmabahce Palace immediately after that .
On the other side of the Golden Horn I rode through Eminonu Square , with Yeni Cami , or the New Mosque , which dates from the Seventeenth Century , just across from the entrance to the bridge .
Erected on the site of pagan temples and three previous St. Sophias , the first of which was begun by Constantine , this fourth church was started by Justinian in 532 and completed twenty years later .
Inside over the first door I saw one of these , which shows Constantine offering the city to the Virgin Mary and Justinian offering the temple .
Beneath the dome I saw the spot where the Byzantine Emperors were crowned , a bit of floor protected now by a wooden fence .
Outside St. Sophia I walked through the flower garden in front of it , with the Blue Mosque ahead on my left .
At the beginning of the Hippodrome I saw the Kaiser's Fountain , an ugly octagonal building with a glass dome , built in 1895 by the German Emperor , and on my left , directly across from it , the tomb of Sultan Ahmet , who constructed the Blue Mosque , more properly known by his name .
Just before coming to the mosque entrance I crossed the street , entered the Hippodrome , and walked ahead to the Obelisk of Theodosius , originally erected in Heliopolis in Egypt about 1,600 B.C. by Thutmose , who also built those now in New York , London and Rome at the Lateran .
Beyond it I noted a small green column , about twelve feet below the present ground level -- the Serpentine Column , three entwined serpents , which once stood at the Temple of Apollo at Delphi , Greece .
Magnificent Mosque
Back at the Kaiser's Fountain , I walked left to the streetcar stop and rode up the hill -- any car will do -- past the Column of Constantine , also known as the Burnt Column , at the top on my right .
I stayed on the car for a few minutes until , turning right , it entered a huge square , Bayezit , with the Bayezit Mosque on the right and the gate to the university just beyond it .
Taking the streetcar back to Kaiser's Fountain , I walked ahead , then left down the street opposite St. Sophia and just beyond the corner came to a small , one-story building with a red-tile roof , which is the entrance to the Sunken Palace .
Outside I walked past the entrance to St. Sophia , turned left at the end of it , and continued toward a gate in the wall ahead .
Going through the Imperial Gate in the wall , I entered the grounds of Topkapi Palace , home of the Sultans and nerve center of the vast Ottoman Empire , and walked along a road toward another gate in the distance , past the Church of St. Irene , completed by Constantine in 330 A.D. on my left , and then , just outside the second gate , I saw a spring with a tap in the wall on my right -- the Executioner's Spring , where he washed his hands and his sword after beheading his victims .
Passing through the gate , with towers on either side once used as prisons , I entered a huge square surrounded by buildings , and on the wall to my right found a general plan of the grounds , with explanations in English for each building .
Following arrowed signs , I veered right toward the former kitchens , complete with chimneys , which now house one of the world's greatest collections of Chinese porcelain and a fabulous array of silver dinner services .
In the court once more , I went right toward the Reception House , a long one-story building with a deep portico .
Taking the path behind the Throne Room to the building directly beyond it , the Portrait Gallery , I went right at the end of it , through a garden to a small building at the back -- a sitting room furnished with low blue divans , its floor covered with carpets , its ceiling painted with gold squares and floral designs .
( Do start fires one or two hours ahead of time to obtain a lasting bed of glowing coals .
Do line barbecue fire bowl with heavy foil to reflect heat .
Don't forget to buy a plastic pastry brush for basting with sauces .
Do build a wall of glowing coals six to eight inches in front of meat that is barbecued on an electric spit .
Don't fail to shorten cooking time by the use of aluminum foil cut slightly larger than the surface of steaks and chops .
Do avoid puncturing or cutting into meats to test them .
Don't practice a new recipe on guests .
Do buy meat the day or the day before you intend to cook it .
Don't plan meals that are too complicated .
Do whatever kitchen work , such as fixing a salad , preparing garlic bread , or making a marinade sauce , ahead of time .
Don't think you have to start with the most expensive equipment in the world .
Do keep the grill high enough above the fire so that when fat from meat drips down and flares up , flames cannot reach the meat .
Don't forget to have a supply of Melamine plates , bowls , cups , saucers , and platters for outdoor use .
Do without fancy tablecloths .
Don't forget -- when you take to the hills or the beach -- that your cooler , which you might have used for wine- or beer-cooling on your terrace or back yard , is indispensable for carrying liquid refreshments .
Do use paper napkins ; ;
Don't think barbecue cooking is just sometimes , or seasonal .
Do buy all-purpose mugs or cups .
Don't forget the joys of a meal on the road .
Simple meat dishes
Sure , for the most of us , a frankfurter is the favorite .
The nation's number one picnic treat is the skinless frankfurter -- toasted over a bonfire on the beach or , more sedately , charcoal broiled on a portable grill .
-- Score each frankfurter in four or five places about a third of the way through .
-- Relishes are as vital to the success of the frank as are buns .
-- Using a portable grill permits you to toast the buns , too .
-- An unusual flavor can be achieved by marinating the franks in French dressing or a mixture of honey , lemon juice and brown sugar prior to the picnic .
Contrary to popular opinion , `` a la mode '' doesn't mean `` with ice cream '' -- it just means , in the latest style .
.
.
Make sauces ahead .
For sweet-sour sauce , cook onion in oil until soft .
To prepare mustard cream , blend mustard with enough water to make a thin paste .
Here are suggestions for the frankfurter trimmings : 1 .
Chili con carne : use canned chili con carne .
Coney Island sauce : finely chop several onions and add enough catsup to moisten well ; ;
Savory sauerkraut : add several tablespoons of brown sugar to a can of sauerkraut .
.
.
Note :
Equipment :
Materials :
General directions :
To release clay from mold , place hands in a cupped position around project ; ;
Rectangular tiles
Round plaque
Paperweight
Jars with lids
Use white or buff clay , rolled to 3/16'' '' thickness .
To assemble jar , put paper pattern B for base in bottom of mold and clay disk B on top .
To assemble lid , press clay piece C in cavity of wooden design head .
For an antique effect on jars , brush Creek-Turn brown toner on bisque ware and sponge it off .
Little folks set :
Handle for creamer is a strip of clay 1/2'' '' wide and 3-1/2'' '' long .
Let all projects dry slowly for several days .
Changing colors
Measuring armhole
Backstitching seam
Weaving seam
Hotei is 23 feet long with an 8-1/2-foot beam and every inch a family boat .
With only two aboard , Hotei does better than 27 mph -- and she gives a comfortable ride at this speed even in a three-foot chop .
A lot of thought went into storage space construction .
Needless to say , you can't build Hotei in a couple of weeks .
All framing in Hotei is one-inch mahogany which , in the dressed state you buy it , is about the 13/16-inch thickness specified in the drawings .
Construction follows a thorough study of the drawings .
The transom frame is made first with the joints lapped , glued and fastened with one-inch , No. 12 Stronghold nails .
The jig is erected after the frames and transom are complete .
After the frames and transom are set up on the jig and temporarily braced , a piece of three-inch-wide mahogany ( only widths will be given since the 13/16-inch thickness is used throughout ) is butted between frames one and two below the line of the keelson .
The keelson , made of two three-inch widths , is next installed .
A stem jig is next cut to the proper shape and temporarily fastened to frame one .
All bottom battens are two inches wide .
Fairing is always a tedious job but the work can be cut down considerably with a Skill planer and a simple jig .
The planking is five-ply , 3/8-inch-thick Weldwood Royal Marine plywood .
When cut , the planking is clamped in place for a final and careful trimming .
After planking , the bottom gets a layer of Fiberglas .
When the whole bottom has hardened , use a disk sander to feather the edges of the cloth at the keel line and near the spray rail .
The hull is now turned over ( with the help of about seven friends ) and placed in a level , well-braced position .
After trimming off the excess on the frames and transom which was used to fasten them to the jig at a working height , the top of the side planking is installed .
The sides of the motor well run from the bottom battens to the top and from frame six to the transom , forming a real strong transom brace .
The decking is quarter-inch mahogany marine plywood .
With all deck battens in place , the bilge is cleaned and painted up to the floor line .
After the decking is on , the cabin sides are installed .
Inside , bunks are framed up and installed as indicated .
You can build this vacation cottage yourself .
In recognition of the growing trend for second homes , or vacation cottages , we have designed this one specifically with the family handyman in mind .
The theory
A warning
The site
The materials
The wall panels are constructed of a framework of standard Af and Af of a good grade , free from structural faults .
With modern techniques of woodworking and the multitude of cutting tools , fixtures , and attachments available , the drill press has become a basic home workshop tool .
The size of the press is usually expressed in terms of chuck capacity ( the maximum diameter tool shank it will hold ) or distance between the spindle center and the column .
A new radial drill press with a 16 inch capacity has a tilting head that allows drilling to be done at any angle .
Set-up and maintenance
A coat of paste wax or a rubdown with a piece of wax paper will protect the polished surface of the table ; ;
Be careful to keep the drive belt free of oil and grease .
Don't lose the chuck key
Feeds and speeds
Feed pressure is also of major importance .
Common drilling tools
The adjustable fly cutter is very useful for cutting large diameter holes and can be used to cut exact-size discs by reversing the cutter blade .
Simple hole drilling operations
When a hole is to be bored to a predetermined depth , mark the depth on the side of the stock , then run the bit down so that it is even with the mark .
The old-time bridges over the Merrimac River in Massachusetts are of unusual interest in many respects .
The first bridge known to have been covered wholly or in part , -- and perhaps the most interesting one , connected Newbury ( now Newburyport ) with Salisbury Point .
`` Whereas , a Bridge over Merrimack River , from the Land of Hon'ble Jonathan Greenleaf , Esquire , in Newbery , to Deer Island , and from said Island to Salisbury , would be of very extensive utility , by affording a safe Conveyance to Carriages , Teams and Travellers at all seasons of the year , and at all Times of Tide .
`` We , the Subscribers , do agree , that as soon as a convenient Number of Persons have subscribed to this , or a similar Writing , We will present a petition to the Hon'ble General Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts , praying for an Act incorporating into a Body politic the subscribers to such Writing with Liberty to build such a Bridge , and a Right to demand a Toll equal to that received at Malden Bridge , and on like Terms , and if such an Act shall be obtained , then we severally agree each with the others , that we will hold in the said Bridge the several shares set against our respective Names , the whole into two hundred shares being divided , and that we will pay such sums of Money at such Times and in such Manners , as by the said proposed Corporation , shall be directed and required '' .
This paper was signed by forty-five persons , subscribing a total of two hundred shares .
A month later the General Court served notice to the town of Newbury that the bridge was to be built .
Timothy Palmer , who invented and later patented the arch type of construction for wooden bridges , was the genius who planned and supervised the building of the Essex , or `` Deer Island '' bridge although the actual work was carried out under the direction of William Coombs , who received $300 as recompense .
This two-part bridge is best described by Rev. Timothy Dwight , president of Yale College , in his `` Travels In New-England And New-York '' , published in New Haven in 1821 .
`` It consists of two divisions , separated by an island at a small distance from the southern shore .
It is hardly necessary to remind students of covered bridges that Timothy Palmer was born in 1751 in nearby Rowley ; ;
The Essex Merrimack Bridge when first built was not covered .
A dinner and celebration in honor of this piece of engineering took place July 4 , 1793 , in a tavern erected by the corporation on the island .
The north portion of the Essex bridge was well worth the cost of construction , although it proved to be twice what was estimated in the beginning .
An advertisement in the `` Newburyport Herald '' , December 21 , 1810 , shows Palmer in a new light as an expert on chain bridges .
`` .
`` Mr. Palmer will attend to any applications relating to bridges and if desired will view the proposed site , and lay out and superintend the work , or recommend a suitable person to execute it .
John Templeman
`` Approved , Timothy Palmer ''
.
The Essex bridge was a toll crossing until 1868 , when the County Commissioners laid out all the Merrimack bridges as highways .
Sturdy and strong after more than a century of continuous use , the old covered , wooden bridge that spans the Tygartis Valley River at Philippi will have a distinctive part in the week-long observance of the first land battle of the Civil War at its home site , May 28th to June 3rd .
The bridge has survived the natural hazards of the elements , war , fire , and floods , as well as injuries incident to heavy traffic , for more than a hundred years .
This covered , wooden bridge is so closely identified with the first action in the early morning of June 3 , 1861 , and with subsequent troop movements of both armies in the Philippi area that it has become a part and parcel of the war story .
Completed and opened for traffic in 1852 , the bridge was designed and built by Lemuel Chenoweth and his brother , Eli , of Beverly .
During the war it was in constant use by the wagon trains transporting supplies from the railhead at Grafton to the troops operating in the interior .
But what the elements could not do was seriously threatened when Brigadier General William E. ( Grumble ) Jones reached Philippi while on the famous Jones-Imboden raid in May , 1863 .
Again Reverend Corder saved the bridge when Union soldiers planned to destroy it , after filling its two lanes with hay and straw -- but for what reason is not recorded nor remembered , certainly not because of pressure from an opposing Confederate force .
Centering around this historic old structure , a group of public-spirited Barbour County citizens have organized and planned a week-long series of events , beginning on May 28th and continuing through June 3rd , to observe most appropriately the centennial of the first land engagement of the Civil War at Philippi .
It is a good eight years now since each of us acquired a swimming pool -- eight enlightening , vigorous , rigorous , not wholly unrewarding years .
Where to put it
If you are dreaming of a blue , shimmering pool right outside your living room windows , close your eyes firmly and fill in the picture with lots and lots of children , damp towels , squashed tubes of suntan oil and semi-inflated plastic toys .
You can also see that the greater the proximity of the pool to your main living quarters , the greater the chance for violation of family privacy , annoying noise and the let's-make-your-house-our-club attitude .
Another dilemma : As picturesque as a sylvan pond in the forest may be , trees offer a leaf and root hazard to the well-being of a pool .
As in choosing a wife , it is only sensible to consider also how appealing a pool is likely to be in bad weather as well as in good .
Probably no location for a pool is perfect on all counts .
The placement of your pool , however , will not of itself solve the two major problems of pool owning -- those that involve your social life and those pertaining to safety .
Eight years ago while we were going through the mud-sweat-and-tears construction period , we were each solaced by the vision of early morning dips and evening home-comings to a cool family collected around the pool with a buffet table laid out nearby for the lord and master's delectation .
From proud pool-owners to perpetual hosts and handymen was a short step -- no more than the change from city clothes to trunks .
Our book of etiquette
First and foremost : No one -- no , not anyone -- in the family is allowed to issue blanket invitations to his or her own circle .
No friends are to arrive without an invitation or without at least telephoning beforehand .
No ringers , either -- even if they are trailing legitimate invitees .
No young children may come without adults except for a specific , organized , chaperoned party .
No bottle pool is tolerated -- bottle pool being our lingo for those who come to swim and sink into our bar while protesting that they can only dunk and run .
We designated one day a week as the time when neighborhood teen-agers might swim at definite hours .
We also worked out logistics for Sunday afternoon swimmers who arrive two hours early with their weekend guests while we are still enjoying an alfresco lunch en famille .
All dressing ( undressing to be more exact ) must be done in our small bath house or at the swimmers' homes .
Preserving life and limb
In many localities , now , the law requires all pools to be fenced , usually to a minimum height of 5 feet .
Diving boards must have non-skid surfaces ( coco matting takes an awful beating from chlorine and rots quickly , but grit-impregnated paints are excellent ) .
Our pools also have wide , shallow steps -- for the benefit of the littlest swimmers who can thus be introduced to the water with far greater safety than a ladder affords .
All bottles must be kept a safe distance away from the pool and drinking glasses are banned in favor of plastic or metal cups .
When you first acquire a pool , we earnestly recommend -- for your own mental health -- a good long chat with your insurance agent .
Soignee pools , alas , do not just happen .
Preserving the pool
You should see to it that the trap , the dirt-catcher in front of the filter , is always clean .
You should firmly insist that no bobby pins or hair pins be worn in the water .
You can hope against hope that come spring cleaning , your fair-weather friends will lend a hand at scrubbing and furbishing .
Many hours of spring cleaning will be saved , however , if you remove the main drain grate when you close the pool season in the fall .
If your pool is located on or near sloping ground , it may have natural drainage which is certainly more desirable than to be faced with the annual expense and labor of first pumping out the water and then scooping out all the debris .
It may be true that pool lighting dramatizes an evening scene , but lights also attract all the insect life for miles around .
Our experience has taught us that it pays to buy the best equipment possible , from pipes to brushes .
Never let anyone not in the know take a turn at the valves -- even if the little boys do want to play space ship .
Draw a line across the country at the latitude of lower Pennsylvania .
New simplified packaged units , recently devised prefabricated glass-fiber ducts , and improved add-on techniques make it possible to acquire a system for an 1800-square-foot house for as little as $600 to $900 .
Home air conditioning has come a long way from the early days of overcooled theaters and the thermal shock they inflicted .
We know , too , that health is never harmed by summer cooling .
Housekeeping is easier .
It will improve your disposition .
You can forget about screens , and leave the storm windows up all year around .
Best of all , central air conditioning is something you can afford .
No matter what style your home is , ranch , two-story , Colonial or contemporary , central air conditioning is easily installed .
But there's no denying that the easiest and most economical way to get year-'round whole-house air conditioning is when you build .
If you can't see your way clear to have summer cooling included when building , by all means make provision for its easy adding later .
If your house is to have a forced warm air system , cooling can be a part of it .
If you plan to add cooling later to your heating system , there are things to watch for .
You can get a hot water system that will also work for cooling your house .
If the problems of combining cooling with your heating are knotty , it may be cheaper to plan on a completely separate cooling system .
In a long , rambling ranch , two such units can be installed , one serving the living area , the other the sleeping zone .
One of the more remarkable of the new cooling systems is one that can be switched to heating .
Up until recently , this heat pump method of warming air was efficient only in areas of mild winters and when outside temperatures were above 40 degrees .
Consider it as a standby setup , at negligible cost , for those emergencies when the furnace quits , a blizzard holds up fuel delivery , or for cool summer mornings or evenings when you don't want to start up your whole heating plant .
How large a cooling unit you need , and the method of its installation , depends on a variety of factors .
Cooling requirements are best expressed in terms of Aj .
Coolers are also rated by tons .
You may find a conditioner rated by horsepower .
The safest procedure is to let your builder estimate the size of the unit you need , rather than trying to do this yourself .
Don't urge your builder to give you a little extra cooling capacity just to be sure you have enough .
Reducing humidity is often as important as cooling .
Attention to details can cut in half the size unit you need and pare operating expense proportionately .
If you have a house which heat doesn't penetrate easily , your unit will have less heat to remove .
Shade trees , too , are a big help , so keep them if you can .
The more directly the sun strikes walls and roof , the greater its heat impact .
You can use heat-absorbing glass to stop the sun , double glass and insulated glass to combat condensation .
Insulate , weatherstrip , double-glaze to the maximum .
It costs two to three times as much to remove a BTU in summer as it does to add one in winter , so every solitary BTU is worth attention .
It's no use pretending that all conditioners are quiet , but the noise they produce can be kept to a minimum .
Avoid attic placement directly above a bedroom .
Most recreation work calls for a good deal of pre-planning .
Begin the examination of a site with a good map and aerial photos if possible .
Inspect the site in the field during the time of the year when the area will be most heavily used for recreation .
For site planning work , it is best to have a qualified and experienced park planner to carry through the study .
How much study is required ? ?
In looking for the best sites available that meet the requirements , you need information to compare the site with others .
What are the existing recreation features ? ?
How well can the site be developed ? ?
How useful will it be to the public ? ?
Is this site available ? ?
Check the quantity and quality of all of the recreation interests already existing at the site .
One of the most desirable features for a park are beautiful views or scenery .
Water interest is one of the most valuable factors you can find for a recreation site .
The amount of water frontage , the quantity and quality of the water , and the recreation afforded by it are important .
Other natural features which can be of high interest are the forests , canyons , mountains , deserts , seacoast , beaches , sand dunes , waterfalls , springs , etcetera with which the area is blessed .
The fish , animals , and birds which may be found at the site are another interest .
Each area has its own historical interests with which much can be done .
How well can the site be developed ? ?
size and shape
Shape of the area is also related to the use attractions and needs of the development .
Adjoining areas
Topography
Water
Plants
An area may have been partially logged and requires removal of stumps or clean-up .
Exposure
Improvements
Your invitation to write about Serge Prokofieff to honor his 70th Anniversary for the April issue of Sovietskaya Muzyka is accepted with pleasure , because I admire the music of Prokofieff ; ;
The Serge Prokofieff whom we knew in the United States of America was gay , witty , mercurial , full of pranks and bonheur -- and very capable as a professional musician .
Prokofieff's Classical Symphony was hailed as an ingenious work from a naturally gifted and well-trained musician still in his twenties .
I heard the Classical Symphony for the first time when Koussevitzky conducted it in Paris in 1927 .
The answer is , `` Yes '' ! !
Nevertheless , Prokofieff was much influenced by Paris during the Twenties : the Paris which was the artistic center of the Western World -- the social Paris to which Russian aristocracy migrated -- the chic Paris which attracted the tourist dollars of rich America -- the avant-garde Paris of Diaghileff , Stravinsky , Koussevitzky , Cocteau , Picasso -- the laissez-faire Paris of Dadaism and ultramodern art -- the Paris sympathique which took young composers to her bosom with such quick and easy enthusiasms .
So young Prokofieff was the darling of success : in his motherland ; ;
Meanwhile , three great terrible forces were coagulating and crystallizing .
In this changed world , Prokofieff settled to find himself , and to create for large national purpose .
It is at this point in his life that the mature Prokofieff emerges .
But no : Prokofieff grew .
Of course , these works are not comparable , even though the same brain conceived them .
Also , it should be noted that the polytonal freedom of his melodies and harmonic modulations , the brilliant orchestrations , the adroitness for evading the heaviness of figured bass , the skill in florid counterpoint were not lost in his mature output , even in the spectacular historical dramas of the stage and cinema , where a large , dramatic canvas of sound was required .
Prokofieff might well emerge as a cultural hero , who , by the force of his creative life , helped preserve the main stream of tradition , to which the surviving idioms of current experimentalism may be eventually added and integrated .
At this date , it seems probable that the name of Serge Prokofieff will appear in the archives of History , as an effective Traditionalist , who was fully aware of the lure and danger of experimentation , and used it as it served his purpose ; ;
So Prokofieff was able to cultivate his musical talents and harvest a rich reward from them .
When Stravinsky shaped his purpose to the shifting scenes of many cultures , many salons , many dialectics , many personalities , he tried to refashion himself into a stylist of many styles , determined by many disparate cultures .
But time is running out , and many of Stravinsky's admirers begin to fear that he will never find terra firma .
How differently Prokofieff's life unfolded .
With a large and circumspect 20th-Century technique , he wove the materials of national heroes and events , national folklore and children's fairy tales -- Slavic dances and love songs -- into a solid musical literature which served his people well , and is providing much enjoyment to the World at large .
Of course , it must not be forgotten that in achieving this historical feat , Prokofieff had the vast resources of his people behind him ; ;
Thus in Prokofieff the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics produced one of the great composers of the Twentieth Century .
April 10 marked a memorable date in New York's musical history -- indeed in the musical history of the entire eastern United States .
Roy Mason is essentially a landscape painter whose style and direction has a kinship with the English watercolorists of the early nineteenth century , especially the beautifully patterned art of John Sell Cotman .
As a boy Roy Mason began the long process of extracting the goodness of the out-of-doors , its tang of weather , its change of seasons , its variable moods .
Mason had to earn the privilege of devoting himself exclusively to painting .
During all this time Roy continued to paint , first only on weekends , and then , as the family business permitted , for longer periods .
Except for a rich friendship with the painter , Chauncey Ryder who gave him the only professional instruction he ever had -- and this was limited to a few lessons , though the two artists often went on painting trips together -- Roy developed his art by himself .
It has been my privilege to paint with Roy Mason on numerous occasions , mostly in the vicinity of Batavia .
But for the technical fact , we have the artist's own testimony :
`` Of late years , I find that I like best to work out-of-doors .
`` I am thoroughly convinced that most watercolors suffer because the artist expects nature will do his composing for him ; ;
`` Speed in painting a picture is valid only when it imparts spontaneity and crispness , but unless the artist has lots of experience so that he can control rapid execution , he would do well to take these first sketches and soberly reorder their design to achieve a unified composition .
`` If I have seemed to emphasize the structure of the composition , I mean to project equal concern for color .
`` When working from one of my sketches I square it up and project its linear form freehand to the watercolor sheet with charcoal .
`` As for materials , I use the best available .
`` In addition to the usual tools , I make constant use of cleansing tissue , not only to wipe my brushes , but to mop up certain areas , to soften edges , and to open up lights in dark washes .
`` My brushes are different from those used by most watercolorists , for I combine the sable and the bristle .
`` My usual palette consists of top-quality colors : alizarin crimson , orange , raw sienna , raw umber , burnt sienna , sepia , cerulean blue , cobalt blue , French ultramarine blue , Winsor green , Hooker's green 2 , cadmium yellow pale , yellow ochre , Payne's gray , charcoal gray , Davy's gray , and ivory black '' .
In analyzing the watercolors of Roy Mason , the first thing that comes to mind is their essential decorativeness , yet this word has such a varied connotation that it needs some elaboration here .
Long observation has taught Mason that most landscape can be reduced to three essential planes : a foreground in sharp focus -- either a light area with dark accents or a dark one with lights ; ;
When painting , Mason's physical eyes are half-closed , while his mind's eye is wide open , and this circumstance accounts in part for the impression he wishes to convey .
The artist was born in Gilbert Mills , New York , in 1886 , and until two years ago when he and his wife moved to California , he lived in western New York , in Batavia .
Over the years , beginning in 1929 , Mason has been awarded seventeen major prizes including two gold medals ; ;
He was elected to the National Academy of Design as an Associate in the oil class in 1931 ( after receiving his first Ranger Fund Purchase Prize at the Academy in 1930 ) , and elevated to Academicianship in 1940 .
The Russian gymnasts beat the tar out of the American gymnasts in the 1960 Olympics for one reason -- they were better .
But why gymnastics at all ? ?
Taking first things first , let's understand the sport called gymnastics .
But the Russians use gymnastics as the first step in training for all other sports because it provides training in every basic quality except one , endurance .
Another reason gymnastic study is valuable is that it can be started very early in life .
If a nation wished to get a head start in physical fitness over all other nations , it would start its kindergarten students on a program of gymnastics the day they entered and thus eliminate a large number of the problems that plague American schools .
And what has dancing to do with all this ? ?
President Kennedy has asked that we become a physically fit nation .
Dance teachers can respond to President Kennedy's request not only through their regular dance work , but also through the kind of basic gymnastic work that makes for strength and flexibility .
Very little in today's living provides the strength we need and nothing provides the flexibility .
The chinning bar
The horse kick
Push-ups
Handstands
Backbends
Back circle
Somersaults
These are beginnings , but correctly learned they prepare for satisfying and exciting stunts that can be performed by a strong , flexible body ( we are not talking of eccentric extremes ) .
It is very important for parents to understand that early training is imperative .
Every taxpayer is well aware of the vast size of our annual defense budget and most of our readers also realize that a large portion of these expenditures go for military electronics .
When we consider the electronic industry potential for human betterment , the prospect is staggering .
Electronics has been applied to medicine for many years in the form of such familiar equipment as the x-ray machine , the electrocardiograph , and the diathermy machine .
Commonly used electronic devices which are found in practically every hospital are closed-circuit TV and audio systems for internal paging and instruction , along with radiation counters , timers , and similar devices .
In this article we will concentrate on the advances in the application of electronics in bio-medical research laboratories because this is where tomorrow's commonplace equipment originates .
Ultraviolet microscopy
Fig. 1 is a simplified block diagram of the ultraviolet microscopy system developed at the Medical Electronics Center of Rockefeller Institute .
Three different wavelengths of ultraviolet radiation are selected by the variable filters placed in front of the three mercury xenon lights which serve as the ultraviolet sources .
The video signal is amplified and then switched , in synchronism with the three ultraviolet light sources which are sequenced by the rotating mirror so that during one-twentieth of a second only one wavelength , corresponding to red , green , or blue , is seen .
Many of the cells and microorganisms which are transparent to visible light , absorb or reflect the much shorter wavelengths of the ultraviolet spectrum .
At the present time the research team which pioneered this new technique is primarily interested in advancing and perfecting it .
Breathing -- electronically analyzed
In the lower center rack an 8-channel recorder indicates the percentage of carbon dioxide and nitrogen from the upper and lower lobes of one lung , the total volume of inhalation per breath , the flow of air from both lobes , and the pressure of the two lobes with respect to each other .
Heart-measuring techniques
A group of researchers at the University of Washington have given a paper which briefly outlines some of these techniques .
Sonar can be used to measure the thickness of the heart by placing small crystal transducers at opposite sides of the heart or blood vessel and exciting one with some pulsed ultrasonic energy .
A still more sophisticated system has been devised for determining the effective power of the heart itself .
Radio-transmitter pills
A refinement of this technique has been described by Drs. Zworykin and Farrar and Mr. Berkely of the Medical Electronics Center of the Rockefeller Institute .
One of the advantages of this method is that the `` pill '' can remain in the patient for several days , permitting observation under natural conditions .
Sonar in medical research
Because the body contains so much liquid , transmission of ultrasonic signals proceeds fairly well in muscles and blood vessels .
A typical `` sonogram '' of a human eye , together with a description of the anatomical parts , is shown in Fig. 5 .
Drs. Howry and Holmes at the University of Colorado Medical School have applied the same sonar technique to other areas of soft tissue and have obtained extremely good results .
A cross-section of a normal lower human leg is shown in Fig. 8 with the various parts labeled .
Oersted's boyhood represented a minimal chance of either attaining greatness or serving his people so well and over so long a span of life .
In 1793 the brothers decided to enter the University of Copenhagen ( founded in 1479 ) and the following spring found them at the university preparing to matriculate for the autumn session .
Ferment of scientific activity
The new century opened with Oersted beginning his professional career in charge of an apothecary shop in Copenhagen and as lecturer at the university .
From Gottingen ( 1801 ) where he stayed for 10 days , he wrote , `` The first question asked everywhere is about galvanism .
In 1803 Oersted returned to Copenhagen and applied for the university's chair in physics but was rejected because he was probably considered more a philosopher than a physicist .
During Oersted's attendance at the university , it was poorly equipped with physical apparatus for experimenting in the sciences .
He assumed his academic career with the same intensity and thoroughness that had marked every step in his rise from boyhood .
The years 1812 and 1813 saw him in Germany and France again , but on this visit to Berlin he did not seek out the philosophers as he had on his first journey .
Oersted returned in 1814 and resumed an active part in university and political discussions .
In 1819 under royal command he undertook a very successful geological expedition to Bornholm , one of the Danish islands , being one of three scientists in the expedition .
Discovery of electromagnetism
The sequence of events leading to his important discovery still remains ambiguous but it seems that one of the advanced students at the university related that the first direct event that led to the publication of Oersted's discovery occurred during a private lecture made before a group of other advanced students in the spring of 1820 .
Knowing specifically what the many feed additives can do and how and when to feed them can make a highly competitive business more profitable for beef , dairy , and sheep men .
The target chart quickly and briefly tells you which additives do what .
This article assumes that the rations you are feeding your beef , dairy cattle , and sheep are adequately balanced with protein , vitamins , and minerals .
The drug's chemical name is listed , since most states require feed processors to use this name instead of the trade name on the feed tag .
Here's your feed additive guide for ruminants :
drug's chemical name :
Drug's chemical name :
Drug's chemical name :
Drug's chemical name :
Drug's chemical name :
Drug's chemical name :
Drug's chemical name :
Drug's chemical name :
Drug's chemical name :
Drug's chemical name :
Drug's chemical name :
Drug's chemical name :
Drug's chemical name :
Drug's chemical name :
Drug's chemical name :
Drug's chemical name :
Several materials or combinations of materials can be used to construct a satisfactory feed bunk .
Fence-line feeding .
Animals eat only from one side , so the fence-line bunk must be twice as long as the mechanical bunk .
All-weather roads must be provided next to the feeding floor so access will be possible all year .
Marketing in the new decade will be no picnic -- for the sixties will present possibly the most intense competitive activity that you have experienced in the last 20-25 yrs. .
Why ? ?
Given this kind of business climate , what competitive marketing problems will your company face in the next 10 yrs. ? ?
1 .
There has been an intensification of price-consciousness in recent years ; ;
Here are some key areas to examine to make sure your pricing strategy will be on target :
Has the probable price situation in your field been forecast as a basis for future planning ? ?
Average consumer is becoming more sophisticated regarding product and advertising claims , partly because of widespread criticism of such assertions .
Need for service is here to stay -- and the problem is going to be tougher to solve in the sixties .
Providing good customer service requires as thorough a marketing and general management planning job as the original selling of the product .
Good service starts with product design and planning : Many products seem to be designed for a production economy , not for a service one .
Have you assessed the importance of service and given it proper attention ? ?
In spending his money today , the consumer is pulled in many directions .
Many industry trade associations are developing campaigns to protect or enhance the share of the consumer's dollar being spent on their particular products .
The trends have been in evidence for many years -- population shifts to the Southwest and Far West , and from city to suburbs .
We have already witnessed great changes through mergers and acquisitions in the food industry -- at both the manufacturing and retail ends .
The change may require different products , pricing , packaging , warehousing , salesmanship , advertising and executive attention -- practically every link in the marketing network may have to be adjusted .
2 .
In the area of private label competition , it is logical to expect a continuation of trends which have been under way during the first decade .
Average manufacturer frequently has helped build private brand business , delivering largely the same qualities and styles in private brand merchandise as in branded .
If you are up against private brand competition , have you formulated a long-term program for researching and strengthening your market position ? ?
Display merchandising , backed by pre-selling through advertising and promotion , will continue to make strides in the sixties .
How can you cash in on this fast-growing type of outlet and still maintain relationships with older existing outlets which are still important ? ?
Have you carefully examined the selling techniques which best suit your products ? ?
Some distribution costs are kept up by competitive pressure , some by the fact that the customers have come to expect certain niceties and flourishes .
The use of bulk handling is continuously growing .
There may be possible economies at any one of a number of links in your marketing and distribution chain .
Will your trade customers settle for less attention and fewer frills in return for some benefit they can share ? ?
Distribution costs are almost bound to increase in the sixties -- and you will never know what you can do to control them unless you study each element and experiment with alternative ways of doing the job .
From the manufacturer's point of view , the increasing cost of advertising and promotion is a very real problem to be faced in the sixties .
How much fundamental thinking and research has your company done on its advertising program ? ?
Practically all forecasts mention new and exciting products on the horizon .
If competition beats you to it , this exciting new product era can have real headaches in store .
Is your R & D or product development program tuned in to the commercial realities of the market ? ?
Are there individuals in your organization who can shepherd a new product through to commercialization ; ;
3 .
There is a shortage of salesmen today .
While many companies have done fine work in developing sales personnel , much of it has been product rather than sales training .
Have you estimated your sales manpower needs for the future ( both quantitatively and qualitatively ) ? ?
With the growing complexity of markets and intensity of competition , sales management , whether at the district , region or headquarters level , is a tough job today -- and it will be tougher in the future .
Does your company have a program for selecting and developing sales and marketing management personnel for the longer term ? ?
Every single problem touched on thus far is related to good marketing planning .
Are planning and strategy development emphasized sufficiently in your company ? ?
Are annual marketing plans reviewed throughout your management group to get the perspective of all individuals and get everyone on the marketing team ? ?
The key to effective marketing is wrapped up in defining your company's marketing problems realistically .
If companies will take the time to give objective consideration to their major problems and to the questions they provoke , then a long constructive step will have been taken toward more effective marketing in next decade .
The controversy of the last few years over whether architects or interior designers should plan the interiors of modern buildings has brought clearly into focus one important difference of opinion .
Ordinary politeness may have militated against this opinion being stated so badly but anyone with a wide acquaintance in both groups and who has sat through the many round tables , workshops or panel discussions -- whatever they are called -- on this subject will recognize that the final , boiled down crux of the matter is education .
It is true that most architectural schools have five year courses , some even have six or more .
We may then dismiss the time difference between these courses and the usual four year course of the interior design student as not having serious bearing on the subject .
The American Institute of Interior Designers has published a recommended course for designers and a percentage layout of such a course .
The suggested course of the A.I.D. was based on the usual course offered and on the opinion of many educators as to curricular necessities .
Without comparing the relative merits of the two courses -- architecture versus interior design -- let us examine the educational needs of the interior designer .
To begin with , what is an interior designer ? ?
Furnishes complete cost estimates for clients approval .
In addition to this the U. S. Civil Service Bureau , when examining applicants for government positions as interior designers , expects that `` when various needed objects are not obtainable on the market he will design them .
This seems like a large order .
Few will quarrel with the aim of the schools or with the wording of their curriculum .
The old established independent art schools try their best to fulfill their obligations .
It is possible , of course , to work on extant or projected buildings where either architect or owner will explain their necessities so that the student may get `` the feel '' of real interior design demands .
It is like medical schools in India where , in that fairy-land of religious inhibition , the dissection of dead bodies is frowned upon .
In the earlier years of training certain phases of the work must be covered and the synthetic problem has its use .
Consultation with architects , clients , real estate men , fabric houses and furniture companies is essential to the proper development of class problems just as in actual work .
Even the `` history of furniture '' can hardly be taught exclusively from photographs and lantern slides .
The professional organizations such as American Institute of Interior Designers , National Society of Interior Designers , Home Fashions League and various trade associations , can and do aid greatly in this work .
Not only should every educator above the rank of instructor be expected to be a member of one of the professional organizations , but his first qualification for membership as an educator should be so sharply scrutinized that membership would be equivalent to certification to teach the subject .
Participation for the educator in this case , however , would have to be raised to full and complete membership .
This anomalous status of the educator cannot fail to lower his standing in the eyes of the students .
This seems somewhat shortsighted since if the absolute educational qualifications for membership which the organizations profess are ever enforced , the educator will have the molding of the entire profession in his hands .
In one way the Institutes and Societies do a disservice to the schools .
When these groups were first formed many prominent and accomplished decorators could not have had the advantage of school training since interior design courses were rare and undeveloped during their youth .
The necessity of that day has long disappeared .
The reason and the day of `` grandfather clauses '' has long since passed .
Beyond any question of curriculum and approach to subject must be the quality of the teachers themselves .
Nor will the hack , the Jack-of-all-trades , still found in some of the smaller art schools , suffice .
Only a few years ago a middle western college circulated a request for a teacher of interior design .
We must build a corps of highly professional teachers of interior design who have had education , experience in the profession and are willing to take on the usual accompaniments of teaching -- minimal income and minimal status among their confreres .
Considerable specialization in teaching subjects such as architecture , furniture design , textiles and color is also desirable .
In all `` degree '' courses in interior design a number of `` academic '' or `` general studies '' courses are included .
One technical question of school organization comes to mind here .
This brings us to the question of accreditation of art schools in general .
There will be no mitigation of these offences until all art schools , whether independent or attached to universities have separate accreditation -- as do medical schools -- by an art accreditation group such as the `` National Association of Schools of Art '' .
Independent art schools granting degrees must , naturally , follow this with academic accreditation by the appropriate regional group .
General
What effort do you make to assess results of your program ? ?
Have you set specific objectives for your employee publication ? ?
Has your attitude toward employee benefits encouraged an excess of free `` government '' work in your plant ? ?
Is your purchasing agent offering too much free-buying service for employees ? ?
When improvements are recommended in working conditions -- such as lighting , rest rooms , eating facilities , air-conditioning -- do you try to set a measure of their effectiveness on productivity ? ?
When negotiating with your union , do you make sure employees have a choice between new benefits and their cents-per-hour cost in wages .
Can you consider restricting any additional employee benefits to those paid for by profit-sharing money , such as was done in the union contract recently signed by American Motors Corporation ? ?
Insurance
When did you last compare your present premium costs with the costs of insurance from other sources ? ?
Can your insurance company aid you in reducing administrative costs ? ?
Do you try to maintain the principle of employee-contributed ( as opposed to fully company-paid ) programs ? ?
Holidays , time off , overtime
Do you plan to limit additional holidays to area and/or industrial patterns ? ?
Have you investigated the possibility of moving midweek holidays forward to Monday or back to Friday in order to have an uninterrupted work week ? ?
Are you carefully policing wash-up time and rest periods to be certain that all other time is productive ? ?
Are you watching work schedules for boiler operators , guards , and other 24-hour-day , 7-day-week operations in order to minimize overtime ? ?
Are you careful to restrict the number of people on leave at one time so that your total employment obligation is minimized ? ?
Plant feeding facilities
What are the possibilities for operating your cafeteria for a single shift only and relying upon vending machines or prepackaged sandwiches for the second- and third-shift operations ? ?
Have you checked the cost of subcontracting your cafeteria operation in order to save administrative costs ? ?
Are there possibilities of having cafeteria help work part-time on custodial or other jobs ? ?
Can staggered lunch periods relieve the capacity strain on your feeding facilities ? ?
Would it be feasible to limit the menu in order to reduce feeding costs ? ?
Have you considered gradual withdrawal of subsidies to your in-plant feeding operation ? ?
Are you utilizing cafeteria space for company meetings or discussions ? ?
Recreation facilities
Have you audited your program recently to weed out those phases that draw least participation ? ?
Do employees contribute their share of money to recreational facilities ? ?
Have you considered delegating operational responsibility to your employee association and carefully restricting your plant's financial contribution ? ?
Could an employee's garden club take over partial care of plant grounds ? ?
Are you spending too much money on team uniforms that benefit only a few employees ? ?
Are you utilizing vending machine proceeds to help pay for your program ? ?
Transportation and parking
If you use parking attendants , can they be replaced by automatic parking gates ? ?
Will your local bus company erect and/or maintain the bus stops at your plant ? ?
If you provide inter-plant transportation , can this be replaced by available public transportation ? ?
How efficient and necessary are your intra-company vehicles ? ?
Paid vacations
Can vacations be spaced throughout the 12 months to minimize the number of employee fill-ins ? ?
Do you insist that unneeded salary employees take their vacations during plant shutdowns ? ?
What can your sales and purchasing departments do to curtail orders , shipments , and receipts during vacation shutdown periods ? ?
Retirement
What sort of effort do you make to assure that older or disabled workers are fully productive ? ?
Will your union accept seniority concessions in assigning work for older or disabled employees ? ?
Medical and health
If you have a full-time doctor now , can he be replaced with a part-time doctor or one who serves on a fee-per-case basis only ? ?
Can your plant nurse be replaced by a trained first-aid man who works full-time on some other assignment ? ?
Do you rigidly distinguish between job- and non-job-connected health problems and avoid treating the latter ? ?
Are you indiscriminantly offering unnecessary medical services -- flu shots , sun lamp treatments , etc. ? ?
If you have an annual or regular physical examination program , is it worth what it is costing you ? ?
A program to fit your needs
But even if that other plant employs the same number of workers and makes the same product , there are other facts to consider .
Above all , don't set up extravagant fringe benefits just to buy employee good will .
Aim to balance your employee benefit package .
Communications
Some companies find a little imagination helpful .
Insurance
Check to see if some of your benefits -- such as on-the-job disability pay -- can be put on a direct payment rather than an insured basis at a savings to you .
Use deductable insurance wherever feasible .
Don't go overboard on insurance that pays benefits only upon death .
Special time off
Coffee breaks can be a real headache if not regulated .
Retirement policies
Choose carefully between contributory or non-contributory pension plans .
Holidays
Consider adopting a system of holidays in which time off is granted with an eye to minimum inconvenience to the operation of the plant .
Require each employee to work his last shift both before and after the holiday to be eligible for pay .
Eating facilities
Check your cafeteria location to make sure it's convenient for most employees .
Vacations
Also make sure you have reasonable requirements as to hours worked before a production employee is entitled to a vacation .
The long and ever-increasing column of sportsmen is now moving into a new era .
As the generations move on , clothes become more suitable for the enjoyment of outdoor sports .
The American firearms and ammunition manufacturers through diligent research and technical development have replaced the muzzle loader and slow-firing single-shot arms with modern fast firing auto-loaders , extremely accurate bolt , lever , and slide action firearms .
And due to modern resource-use and game management practices , there is still game to shoot , even with the ever-expanding encroachment on land and water .
Close to two million game birds were harvested on 1,500 commercial and private shooting preserves , and on State Game Commission-controlled upland game areas during the 1960-61 season .
The most effective way to develop more places for more sportsmen to shoot is to encourage properly managed shooting preserves .
Following the kick-off of SAAMI's shooting development program in 1954 , a most interesting meeting took place in Washington , D.C. .
The Outdoor Education Project took cognizance of the fact , so often overlooked , that athletic activities stressed in most school programs have little or no relationship to the physical and mental needs and interests of later life .
Following a vigorous campaign of interpretation and leadership development by OEP director Dr. Julian Smith , today thousands of secondary schools , colleges and universities have shooting and hunting education in their physical education and recreation programs .
In 1959 SAAMI's shooting development program announced a new activity designed to expose thousands of teen-age boys and girls to the healthy fun enjoyed through the participation in the shooting sports .
Teen Hunter Clubs were initially sponsored by affiliated members of the Allied Merchandising Corporation .
Other THC activities followed , conducted by shopping centers , department stores , recreation equipment dealers , radio-TV stations , newspapers , and other organizations interested in the need existing to acquaint youngsters with the proper use of sporting firearms and the development of correct attitudes and appreciations related to hunting and wise use of our natural resources .
Through the efforts of SAAMI's shooting development program these shooting activities , and many others , including assists in the development of public and privately financed shooting parks , trap and skeet leagues , rifle and pistol marksmanship programs have been promoted , to mention only a few .
The continuation and expansion of the shooting development program will assure to some degree that national and community leaders will be made aware of the ever-growing need for shooting facilities and activities for hunting and shooting in answer to public demand .
The American gun and ammunition producers sponsor a successful promotional program through their industry trade association .
Are you getting top dollar from the shooting sports ? ?
Is your sporting firearms and ammunition department primed for the expanding horizons ? ?
Would you like to organize Teen Hunters Clubs , shooting programs , and have information on seasons including six months of hunting with unlimited game bags on shooting preserves ? ?
With the whole camp exposed to view we could see the variety of canvas shelters in which Americans are camping now .
Moving around camp we saw all kinds of camp stoves , lanterns , coolers , bedding , games , fishing tackle , windbreaks and sunshades .
Camping is big and getting bigger .
More campers than campsites
But the campers still come .
Why they keep coming
But make no mistake about it , the first reason people turn to camping is one of economy .
The American Automobile Association , computing the cost for two people to vacation by automobile , comes up with an average daily expenditure figure of $29 .
What does the camping couple do to this set of figures ? ?
Where Americans used to think of a single vacation each summer , they now think about how many vacations they can have .
It would be a mistake to sell those thousands of beginning campers on the idea they're buying the comforts of home .
Camp meals are no great problem .
But there is still the sometimes complex problem of helping campers choose the best equipment for their individual needs .
Throughout history , the man who showed superior performance has become the commander of others -- for good or bad .
There have always been tales of disillusionment -- the competent technician who became an administrator , willingly or not , and found he didn't like it ; ;
This has been more evident since our products have incorporated astronomically increased technology .
Yet our economy clings inexorably to recognition of managerial status as the gage of success .
What can be done for the `` individual contributor '' who is extremely important -- and likely to be more so -- in the operation of the technically oriented company ? ?
Even the college professor in America has been affected .
Nobody should be more able to answer the questions on this score than engineering vice-presidents and chief engineers .
First : what title , what setup ? ?
Among the more familiar plans for dual-channel advancement is that of General Electric .
Actually , there are a number of individual-contributor positions in both operating departments and in the company-wide `` services '' operation that are filled by men with successful managerial experience who are currently broadening their capabilities .
Also , moving into a managerial position does not necessarily end a man's recognition as a technical expert .
In the GE plan , a number of individual contributors have positions and compensation higher than those of many managers .
Consultant , Advanced Development
Consulting Engineer ,
Consulting Engineer , Heat Transfer
Consulting Electrical Engineer ,
Senior Electrical Engineer ,
Senior Physicist .
Westinghouse has a similar system , with two classifications representing various levels of competence on the strictly technical side : consulting engineer or scientist , as the case may be , and advisory engineer or scientist .
Another factor that may hold hope is for parallel recognition is , as one man says it : `` that the fad for educating top people along managerial lines is yielding to the technically trained approach '' .
One company instituted , early in 1959 , a vertical classification system consisting of four levels .
The company expects to extend upward both compensation and status for non-supervisory engineers , but probably not into executive levels .
`` We do not have people in our organization termed ' consultants ' or ' fellows ' , who are specialists in one particular technical subject .
`` Above these jobs we have chief engineer for the company and vice-president of Engrg , R & Aj .
`` A serious problem accompanying the technical-ladder approach is the difficulty of clearly defining responsibilities and standards of performance for each level .
`` We also do a number of things to build up the prestige of the engineer as a ' professional ' and also to give public recognition to individual technical competence .
`` A recent , and more pertinent action , has been the establishment of a technical staff reporting to the vice-president for Engineering .
`` We presently are involved in inaugurating a new development center .
`` These recent steps do not offer the possibility of extension to the great number of senior engineers who have displayed technical competence .
Sixty miles north of New York City where the wooded hills of Dutchess County meet the broad sweep of the Hudson River there is a new home development called `` Oakwood Heights '' .
This is a pilot operation sponsored by a new entity chartered in Delaware as the Tri-State Pipeline Corporation , with principal offices in New York State .
The idea of a central tank with lines to each house is not in itself a novelty .
Common complaints included `` Mrs. Murphy '' leaving her windows open all the time , a fresh air fan , or the family was visiting `` Aunt Minnie '' with the house shut up but they still paid the same rate for oil .
A new low capacity meter is the key that unlocks the situation at Oakwood Heights .
There's an advantage in having a firm like Tri-State headed by a lawyer .
It is always difficult , or at least time-consuming , to get approval of any kind of line under a public street , as one example .
How does Tri-State get its revenue from this plan ? ?
On this first venture the central storage is 20,000 gallons , in two tanks , or an average of 400 gallons for each of the 50 homes .
For this first development the supplier signing the lease is a major oil company but in turn the deal is being transferred for operation to its local fueloil distributor .
Initial considerations
The Public Service Commission has ruled that this is not a public utility , subject to their many regulations .
Several financial institutions , both banks and insurance companies , have been sounded out .
The Government housing agencies consider it feasible with one special stipulation .
For a few details of the system the lines are 1-1/4'' '' X-Tru-Coat , a product of Republic Steel Corp. , and all lines are welded .
Ritter , the builder , is convinced that the total cost of all the heating systems plus the oil distribution system is no greater than would be gas heating systems in the houses plus their lines and meters .
It would be pretty difficult to install a Tri-State system in old neighborhoods , and that's an understatement .
Future plans
This whole development is certain to be of interest to the readers , for the idea has so often been mentioned , somewhat wistfully .
The oilheating industry is looking up , led by a revival of research and development .
Every year about this time National Gargle Your Cooling System week rolls around .
First , drain that old coolant down the storm sewer .
If a lot of rust shows in the drain , use a good flushing cleaner .
Then fill the system and add a rust inhibitor .
Now , check for leaks in your hoses and hose connections , around the freeze-out plugs , gaskets , water pump seals and heater fittings .
Next , run the engine and let it heat up so the thermostat opens , and then look for leaks again .
If you use one of the new year-round cooling system fluids such as `` Dowguard '' be sure to check it .
Take precautions now , to be sure you avoid those unpleasant and costly heat breakdowns when the temperature zooms this summer .
Don't let your mechanics pull the thermostats out of those fueloil delivery trucks or installation rigs of yours .
The fact is that removing and leaving out a thermostat from any water cooled vehicle , will greatly increase the fuel consumption , reduce power and contribute to spark plug fouling due to an accumulation of excessive carbon deposits on the insulators .
If you run into excess plug fouling on one truck , check to be sure that the rig has a thermostat .
Are you paying too much for your truck insurance ? ?
Have a talk with your insurance agent .
Duplicate coverage .
Does your policy have a lay-up clause ? ?
The figure five is important in insurance .
Usually premium reductions can be obtained by applying deductibles to your liability plan .
In the period since the end of World War 2 , -- a period coinciding with merchandising demands for the colorful , the unusual , and the original in signs and displays -- plastics have come on so strong that today they are the acknowledged leaders in the field .
There is much that many industries can continue to learn from some of the more recent developments described below .
A volume market
From the volume standpoint , the total market represented by the sign industry is impressive .
Why the trend to plastics ? ?
What accounts for the rapid growth of plastics in the sign and display field ? ?
Plastics combine such properties as built-in color , light weight , optional transparency or translucency , resistance to corrosion , as well as the ease of fabrication .
Plastic signs are economical .
They offer exceptional design freedom , making it possible to incorporate contours and details which give free range to the talents of the designer .
Plastic signs work around the clock .
Advances in equipment and fabrication techniques give the sign or display manufacturer an extremely wide choice of production techniques , ranging from injection molding for intricate , smaller-size , mass-production signs ( generally 5000 units is the minimum ) to vacuum and pressure forming for larger signs of limited runs .
For outdoor signs and displays , acrylic , with its outstanding optical characteristics , weather resistance and formability , strongly dominates the picture .
Of interest is a recent announcement by Du Pont's Polychemicals Dept. of a new methyl methacrylate monomer designated as Monocite H 100 , which was developed specifically for production of cast acrylic sheets for the sign and lighting industry .
Cellulose acetate butyrate is used extensively for vacuum-formed signs , background panels , and molded or formed letters because of its exceptional toughness , ease of forming , and excellent weathering properties .
For specialized types of displays , such as large three-dimensional units reproducing a product , package , human or animal figures , etc. , reinforced plastics and rotationally molded vinyl plastisols are other materials frequently used .
A relative newcomer in outdoor signs is Mylar polyester film , now used as a printed overlay for trans-illuminated signs ( see below ) .
For outdoor signs and displays , where the problem of weathering resistance is no longer a factor , the choice of plastics is almost unlimited .
Trans-illuminated billboards
The essential difference between the new trans-illuminated boards and existing billboards is that the former , constructed of translucent plastic panels , are lighted from within .
The copy itself , including any text or illustrations , is reproduced in full color directly on a thin Mylar polyester film by a photo screen process .
Signs of this type have already made their appearance in several larger cities , and others are on the way .
Trans-illuminated signs also show versatility in other directions .
Recently Industrial Electric unveiled another new development made possible by modern plastic materials -- a revolving spectacular sign .
Changeable letters fill many needs
Signs are meant to convey a message , and in most cases , this requires words and letters .
Poster Products Inc. , Chicago , Ill. : a changeable copy and display sign which consists of an extruded impact styrene background in choice of colors , onto which are mounted snap-in letters , figures , or words screened on acetate or other types of sheet stock .
The Adaptaplex Co. , Beaverton , Ore. : letters molded of butyrate , available in several sizes in either red or black .
For large letters , e.g. thermoformed of acrylic or butyrate , there are other techniques .
Large injection-molded letters are also available for sign installations .
Still another approach to the changeable letter type of sign is a modular unit introduced by Merritt Products , Azusa , Calif. .
On large-area units , where additional structural requirements are imposed , one recent approach utilizes modular extruded or formed channels ( e.g. right-angled corrugations ) of the acrylic or butyrate .
New rule no. 2 : :
Don't wall in your kitchen before you hang the wall cabinets and set the appliances .
Set your bathtub before you close in the end of the bathroom .
Finish your plumbing before you frame it in ( most economical framing is a thin non-bearing partition on either side of the pipes ) .
Finish installing and connecting up your furnace and your water heater before you wall them in .
Don't position your studs before you insert your windows in conventional construction ; ;
Install your disappearing stair ( or stairs ) to the attic and finish your overhead ducts before you drywall the ceiling .
Don't close in your house until everything has been carried in .
No auto maker would dream of putting the head on the engine before he fitted the pistons in the block .
New rule no. 3 : rethink everything to get all the big savings the revolution in materials handling offers you
It makes it easy to handle much heavier units , so you can plan to build with much bigger and heavier prefabricated components like those shown in the pictures alongside .
It makes materials handling the only construction cost that ( like earthmoving and roadbuilding ) should be lower today than in 1929 .
It changes the answers to `` Who should do what , and where '' ? ?
It changes the answers on when to do what at the site .
It changes the answers on builder-dealer relations .
Says Clarence Thompson : `` We dealers must earn our mark-up by performing a service for the builder cheaper than he could do it himself '' .
`` Only one lumber dealer in ten is equipped to handle unit loads ; ;
`` So from raw materials to finished erection the costs of materials handling ( most of it inefficient ) add up to one-fourth of the total construction cost of housing '' .
`` That House & Home Round Table was the real starting point for today's revolution in materials handling '' , says Clarence Thompson , long chairman of the Lumber Dealers' Research Council .
Almost all of the 3,000 lumber dealers who cater primarily to the new-house market and supply 90% of this year's new houses are mechanized .
Practically all bulky housing products can now be ordered in standard units palletized or unitized for mechanical handling -- including lumber , asphalt shingles , glass block , face brick , plaster , lime , hardboard , gypsum wallboard and sheathing , cement , insulation sheathing , floor tile , acoustical tile , plaster base , and asbestos shingles .
Truck and materials-handling equipment makers now offer specialized units to meet almost every homebuilding need .
More than 50% of all lumber is unitized ; ;
Lumber dealers and lumber manufacturers have agreed on a standard unit for unitized shipments -- 48'' '' wide by a nominal 30'' '' high ( or six McCracken packets 24'' '' wide by nominal 7'' '' high ) .
The railroads have responded by adding 20,000 more box cars with doors 12' or wider for forklift unloading ( a 21% increase while the total number of box cars was falling 6% ) and by cutting their freight rates twice on lumber shipped in heavily loaded cars .
More unitized lumber is being shipped on flat cars , and NLRDA studies show that flat cars loaded with the new Type 6-B floating-load method can be unloaded for as little as $.054/mbf .
The reason : today's components and lumber packages are far too bulky to be handled by a truckdriver and a helper .
Says Wright : `` Our survey shows that one third of the retail dealers plan to increase the mechanization of their materials handling in the coming two years .
New rule no. 4 : :
Even `` America's most efficient builder '' , Bob Schmitt of Berea , hopes to cut his labor costs another $2,000 per house as a result of the time-&-motion studies now being completed on his operation by industrial efficiency engineers from the Stanley Works .
Builder Eddie Carr of Washington , past president of NAHB , cut his bricklaying costs $150 a house by adopting the `` SCR masonry process '' worked out after careful time-&-motion studies by the Structural Clay Products Research Foundation to help bricklayers do better work for less .
One good way to cut your labor waste is to make sure you are using just the right number of men in each crew .
No house was ever built that could not have been built better for less if the work had been better planned and the work better scheduled .
New rule no. 5 : :
Green lumber was all very well back in the days of wet plaster , when the framing lumber was bound to swell and then shrink as tons of water dried out the gypsum .
Green studs cost about $.65 ; ;
There comes a time in the lives of most of us when we want to be alone .
The champagne at Troyes , the traditional capital of the champagne country , has more ambrosial taste somehow than it has at a sidewalk cafe on the Rue de la Paix or at Tour D'Argent .
An almost too-simple-to-be-true way to set forth on such adventures is just to put yourself behind the wheel of a car and head for the open road .
For those who need or want and can afford another car , buying one and driving it on the grand tour , then shipping it home , is one popular plan for a do-it-yourself pilgrimage .
Almost any travel agent will reserve a car for you .
For those who plan to travel to Europe by one route and return by another some agencies offer a service whereby you can pick up a car in one city on arrival and leave it in another city , or even another country , when you are ready to return home .
International Touring Documents are usually provided with the car as are road maps and touring data .
Rental fees are variable , too , throughout the countries of Europe .
It is well to bear in mind that gasoline will cost from $.80 to $.90 for the equivalent of a United States gallon and while you might prefer a familiar Ford , Chevrolet or even a Cadillac , which are available in some countries , it is probably wiser to choose the smaller European makes which average thirty , thirty-five and even forty miles to the gallon .
Your choice of model will undoubtedly be governed by the number of people travelling in your group .
The basic costs are generally pretty much the same regardless of the agency through which you reserve your car , but some of them offer supplementary advantages .
All model cars are not available in all countries .
In the majority of countries , however , the rates range from $3.00 to $3.50 a day for the smaller sedans and graduate up to $7.00 and $8.00 a day for the larger , luxury European models , with the rate per kilometer driven starting at $.03 and going up as high as $.12 .
If you are planning to tour Europe for longer than a month , it might be wise for you to lease a car .
There are reasons for some people not wanting to rent cars and going on the do-it-yourself plan .
Your chauffeur's expenses will average between $7.00 to $12.00 a day , but this charge is the same whether you rent a 7-passenger Cadillac limousine or a 4-passenger Peugeot or Fiat 1800 .
The fees for the rental of chauffeur-driven cars vary in the different countries in the same manner as they do for the drive-yourself cars .
In American romance , almost nothing rates higher than what the movie men have called `` meeting cute '' -- that is , boy-meets-girl seems more adorable if it doesn't take place in an atmosphere of correct and acute boredom .
The way MacArthur said his line -- if you had the recorded transcript of a professional linguist -- would probably have gone like this : Af Primary stresses on emeralds and wish ; ;
In other words , like automation machines designed to work in tandem , they shared the same programming , a mutual understanding not only of English words , but of the four stresses , pitches , and junctures that can change their meaning from black to white .
This basic principle , the first in a richly knotted bundle , was conveyed to me by Dr. Henry Lee Smith , Jr. , at the University of Buffalo , where he heads the world's first department of anthropology and linguistics .
To the trained ear of the linguist , talk has always revealed a staggering quantity of information about the talker -- such things as geographical origin and/or history , socio-economic identity , education .
In the early 1950's , Smith , together with his distinguished colleague , George Trager ( so austerely academic he sometimes fights his own evident charm ) , and a third man with the engaging name of Birdwhistell ( Ray ) , agreed on some basic premises about the three-part process that makes communication : ( 1 ) words or language ( 2 ) paralanguage , a set of phenomena including laughing , weeping , voice breaks , and `` tone '' of voice , and ( 3 ) kinesics , the technical name for gestures , facial expressions , and body shifts -- nodding or shaking the head , `` talking '' with one's hands , et cetera .
Smith's first workout with stresses , pitches , and junctures was based on mother , which spells , in our culture , a good deal more than bread alone .
The joint investigations of linguistics and psychiatry have established , in point of fact , that no matter what the subject of conversation is or what words are involved , it is impossible for people to talk at all without telling over and over again what sort of people they are and how they relate to the rest of the world .
At a minimum , recording -- usually on tape , which is now in wide professional use -- brings the psychiatric interview alive so that the full range of emotion and meaning can be explored repeatedly by the therapist or by a battery of therapists .
Interpretation , naturally , remains the role of the therapist , but orientation -- not only the patient's vocal giveaways of geographical and socio-economic background , but also vocal but non-verbal giveaways of danger spots in his relationship to people -- can be considerably beefed up by the linguist .
Within the first five minutes of this interview it is apparent to the therapist that `` everybody '' truthfully refers to the woman's husband .
The linguistic and paralinguistic signals of misery are all present in the voice chart for this sentence ; ;
Since the psychiatric interview , like any other interview , depends on communication , it is significant to note that the therapist in this interview was a man of marked skill and long experience .
Yet , in spite of this , intensive study of the taped interviews by teams of psychotherapists and linguists laid bare the surprising fact that , in the first five minutes of an initial interview , the patient often reveals as many as a dozen times just what's wrong with him ; ;
She was just another freighter from the States , and she seemed as commonplace as her name .
The John Harvey arrived in Bari , a port on the Adriatic , on November 28th , making for Porto Nuovo , which , as the name indicates , was the ancient city's new and modern harbor .
Which was poison gas .
It had required the approval of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt before the John Harvey could be loaded with 100 tons of mustard gas and despatched to the Italian warfront .
Throughout the early years of World War 2 , , reports persisted that the Axis powers had used gas -- Germany in Russia , Japan in China again .
`` From time to time since the present war began there have been reports that one or more of the Axis powers were seriously contemplating use of poisonous gas or noxious gases or other inhumane devices of warfare .
`` However , evidence that the Axis powers are making significant preparations indicative of such an intention is being reported with increasing frequency from a variety of sources .
`` Use of such weapons has been outlawed by the general opinion of civilized mankind .
The following month the invasion of Italy was begun , and Roosevelt gave effect to his warning by consenting to the stockpiling of poison gas in southern Italy .
So the vile cargo went into the hole of the John Harvey .
It was the night of December 2 , 1943 , and it was growing dark in Bari .
`` For three days now a German reconnaissance plane has been over the city taking pictures .
But the older and wiser heads had dismissed his warning as alarmist .
It had been made shockingly evident that very morning to Ensign Kay K. Vesole , in charge of the armed guard aboard the John Bascom .
`` This harbor is a bomber's paradise '' , the Britisher had said with frank grimness .
Vesole had been stunned .
Above decks on the John Harvey , Lieutenant Richardson gazed at the lights still burning on the port wall and felt uneasy .
For five days now , they had been in port and that filthy stuff was still in the hold .
The other half of the crew , plus Beckstrom and his men , had remained aboard .
It was a clear night and it was raining ! !
Capt. Michael A. Musmanno , Military governor of the Sorrentine Peninsula , had also seen and felt the `` rain '' .
Captain Musmanno's renovated schooner with the flamboyant name Unsinkable had just left Porto Vecchio with a cargo of badly-needed olive oil for the Sorrentine's civilian population .
It was `` window '' -- the tinsel paper dropped by bombers to jam radar sets , to fill the scope with hundreds of blips that would seem to be approaching bombers .
`` Fermate '' ! !
Unsinkable slowed and stopped , hundreds of brilliant white flares swayed eerily down from the black , the air raid sirens ashore rose in a keening shriek , the anti-aircraft guns coughed and chattered -- and above it all motors roared and the bombs came whispering and wailing and crashing down among the ships at anchor at Bari .
They had come from airports in the Balkans , these hundred-odd Junkers 88's .
In that interval , the German bombers made a hell of Bari harbor .
Merchant ships illuminated in the light of the flares , made to seem like stones imbedded in a lake of polished mud , were impossible to miss .
John Bascom went down early , too .
The order to abandon ship was given , but cries of pain could be heard from the wounded below decks .
There is a pause in the merriment as your friends gaze at you , wondering why you are staring , open-mouthed in amazement .
This experience will have happened to many of you .
Emerson , in his lecture , refers to the `` startling experience which almost every person confesses in daylight , that particular passages of conversation and action have occurred to him in the same order before , whether dreaming or waking , a suspicion that they have been with precisely these persons in precisely this room , and heard precisely this dialogue , at some former hour , they know not when '' .
Most psychiatrists dismiss these instances of that weird feeling as the deja vue ( already seen ) illusion , just as they dismiss dream previsions as coincidences .
When a man recognizes a certain experience as the exact pattern of a previous dream , we have an instance of deja vue , except for the fact that he knows just why the experience seems familiar .
One day Maeterlinck , coming with a friend upon an event which he recognized as the exact pattern of a previous dream , detailed the ensuing occurrences in advance so accurately that his companion was completely mystified .
Rudyard Kipling's scorn for the `` jargon '' of psychical research was altered somewhat when he wondered `` how , or why , had I been shown an unreleased roll of my life film '' ? ?
One day when he attended a war memorial ceremony in Westminster Abbey his view was obstructed by a stout man on his left , his attention turned to the irregular pattern of the rough slab flooring and someone , clasping him by the arm , whispered , `` I want a word with you , please '' .
Freud probably contributed more than anyone else to the understanding of dreams , enabling us to recognize their equivalents in our wakeful thoughts .
Dreams present many mysteries of telepathy , clairvoyance , prevision and retrovision .
I recall the startling , vivid realism of a dream in which I lived through the horror of the bombing of a little Korean town .
Skeptics may deny the more startling phenomena of dreams as things they have never personally observed , but failure to wonder at their basic mystery is outright avoidance of routine evidence .
The question becomes , `` What is a dream '' ? ?
Is a dream simply a mental or cerebral movie ? ?
Every dream , and this is true of a mental image of any type even though it may be readily interpreted into its equivalent of wakeful thought , is a psychic phenomenon for which no explanation is available .
The entire concept of cerebral imagery as the physical basis of a mental image can find no logical support .
Dreams that display events of the future with photographic detail call for a theory explaining their basic mystery and all its components , including that weird feeling of deja vue , inevitably fantastic though that theory must seem .
As in the theory of perception , established in psycho-physiology , the eye is recognized as an integral part of the brain .
But why is it necessary to reproduce the retinal image within the brain ? ?
Modern physics has developed the theory that all matter consists of minute waves of energy .
Space in any form is completely measured by the three dimensions .
The body , senses and brain , in common with all matter , have their counterpart on each of a countless number of frequencies .
If the photographically realistic continuity of dreams , however bizarre their combinations , denies that it is purely a composition of the brain , it must be compounded from views of diverse realities , although some of them may never be encountered in what we are pleased to call the real life .
Dr. H. V. Hilprecht , Professor of Assyrian at the University of Pennsylvania , dreamed that a Babylonian priest , associated with the king Kurigalzu , ( 1300 B.C. ) escorted him to the treasure chamber of the temple of Bel , gave him six novel points of information about a certain broken relic , and corrected an error in its identification .
We may conclude that all six points of information , ostensibly given by the dream priest , could have been furnished by Dr. Hilprecht's subconscious reasoning .
The degree of circumstance , the ratio of memory to forgetfulness , determines whether a dream will be a recognized , fulfilled prevision , or the vaguely , effective source of the weird deja vue feeling .
Chauncey Depew , one-time runner-up for the Republican Presidential nomination , was attending a convention at Saratoga , where he was scheduled to nominate Colonel Theodore Roosevelt for Governor of New York when he noticed that the temporary chairman was a man he had never met .
One week before the convention , Depew was seated on the porch of a country home on the Hudson , gazing at the opposite shore .
`` The food is wonderful and it is a lot of fun to be here '' ! !
So wrote a ten year old student in a letter to his parents from North Country School , Lake Placid , New York .
Because the food is selected with thought for its nutritional value , care for its origin , and prepared in a manner that retains the most nutrients , the food does taste good .
Situated in a region of some of the loveliest mountain scenery in the country , the school buildings are located amid open fields and farm lands .
The Director , Walter E. Clark , believes that a school with children living full time in its care must take full responsibility for their welfare .
Improved farming methods
Where a growing season may , with luck , allow 60 days without frost , and where the soil is poor , sandy , quick-drying and subject to erosion , many farmers fail .
Mr. Clark found that orthodox procedures of deep plowing , use of chemical fertilizers and insecticides , plus the application of conservation principles of rotation and contouring , did not prevent sheet erosion in the potato fields and depreciation of the soil .
`` To give up these notions required a revolution in thought '' , Mr. Clark said in reminiscing about the abrupt changes in ideas he experienced when he began reading `` Organic Gardening '' And `` Modern Nutrition '' in a search for help with his problems .
`` Louis Bromfield's writings excited me as a conservationist '' .
The basis for compost materials already existed on the school farm with a stable of animals for the riding program , poultry for eggs , pigs to eat garbage , a beef herd and wastes of all kinds .
All these materials and supplementary manure and other fertilizers from neighboring dairy and poultry farms made over 40 tons of finished compost a year .
Years of patient application of compost and leaf mulching has changed the structure of the soil and its water-holding capacity .
To demonstrate the soil of his vegetable gardens as it is today , Mr. Clark stooped to scoop up a handful of rich dark earth .
`` People and soils respond slowly '' , says Walter Clark , `` but the time has now come when the gardens produce delicious long-keeping vegetables due to this enrichment program .
The garden supplies enough carrots , turnips , rutabagas , potatoes , beets , cabbage and squash to store for winter meals in the root cellar .
Mr. Clark still has to use rotenone with potatoes grown on the least fertile fields , but he has watched the insect damage decrease steadily and hopes that continued use of compost and leaf mulch will allow him to do without it in the future .
New ideas for improving nutrition came with the study of soil treatment .
`` Adults take a long time to convince and you are thwarted if you try to push '' .
Homemade bread
A mill stands in a room off the kitchen .
There is one problem with the bread .
Hot , freshly-ground cereal
They serve cracked wheat , oats or cornmeal .
When they leave for vacations they miss the hot cereal .
Body-building foods
Milk appears twice a day .
Organ meats such as beef and chicken liver , tongue and heart are planned once a week .
For deserts , puddings and pies are each served once a week .
Finding sources for these high quality foods is a problem .
Wheat-germ , brewer's yeast and ground kelp are used in bread and in dishes such as spaghetti sauce , meat loaves .
Very few fried foods are used and the use of salt and pepper is discouraged .
Nothing is peeled .
Wholesome snacks , no candy
On their frequent hikes into the nearby mountains , the children carry whole grains to munch along the trail .
Maple syrup is made by the children in the woods on the school grounds .
Nourishing meals
The school finds that the children are satisfied with smaller amounts of food since all of it is high in quality .
Outdoor exercises
Healthier children
Visitors to the school ask what shampoo they use on the children's hair to bring out the sheen .
Buffeted by swirling winds , the little green biplane struggled northward between the mountains beyond Northfield Gulf .
`` Good old iron compass '' ! !
A plume of smoke rose from a Central Vermont locomotive which idled behind a string of gravel cars , and little figures that were workmen labored to set the ruptured roadbed to rights .
Rain of near cloudburst proportions had fallen for three full days and it was still raining on the morning of Friday , November 4 , 1927 , when officials of the Post Office Department's Railway Mail Service realized that their distribution system for Vermont had been almost totally destroyed overnight .
From Burlington , outgoing mail could be ferried across Lake Champlain to the railroad at Port Kent , N. Y. .
The question was `` Where to land '' ? ?
The only available field that could be used near flood-ravaged Montpelier was on the Towne farm off upper Main Street , a narrow hillside where takeoffs and landings could be safely made only under light wind conditions .
Though the makeshift airports were ready , the York State Guard flyers proved unable to keep any kind of mail schedule .
Down in Concord , New Hampshire , was a flier in the right place at the right time : Robert S. Fogg , a native New Englander , had been a World War 1 , flying instructor , barnstormer , and one of the original planners of the Concord Airport .
During the excitement following Lindbergh's flight to Paris earlier in 1927 , dare devil aviators overnight became legendary heroes .
By airline from Concord to Burlington is a distance of about 150 miles , counting a slight deviation for the stop at either Barre or Montpelier .
`` But Fogg '' , they countered , `` we can't get over there .
Faced with this situation , Postmaster Charles F. McKenna of Montpelier went with Fogg on a Burlington trip , and together they scouted the terrain on the heights of Berlin .
With a wary eye on the farmer's bull , Fred Somers of Montpelier and Mr. St. John marked the field with a red table cloth .
Each trip saw the front cockpit filled higher with mail pouches .
Over the weeks , America's first Star Route Air Mail settled into a routine pattern despite the vagaries of weather and the lack of ground facilities and aids to navigation .
As daylight began to show through the frosty windows , Fogg would place a call to William A. Shaw at the U. S. Weather Station at Northfield , Vermont , for temperature and wind-velocity readings .
Out at the airport each morning , Fogg's skilled mechanic Caleb Marston would have the Waco warmed up and running in the drafty hangar .
Plane radios were not yet available , and once in the air , Fogg flew his ship by compass , a good memory for landmarks as seen from above , and a capacity for dead reckoning and quick computation .
The dependable Wright engine was never stopped on these trips .
Sometimes , on a return trip , the aviator would `` go upstairs '' high over the clouds .
Usually back in Concord by noon , there was just time to get partially thawed out , refuel , and grab a bit of Mrs. Fogg's hot broth before starting the second trip .
The flyer had his share of near-misses .
One afternoon during a cold , powdery snowstorm , Fogg took off for Concord from the St. John field .
Are you retiring now ? ?
Yes , retirement seems to creep upon you suddenly .
So , now what ? ?
Now ! !
A great many retired people are the so-called white collar workers .
If so , you are of the old school .
Actually , you can take no special credit for this .
However , the last few years of your life , things seem to be changing .
What's happened ? ?
Now , looming on the horizon are such things as estimated totals , calculated risks and I.B.M. machines .
Well , to get back to the problem of retirement .
Now ! !
You can sit back and moan and bewail your lot .
It seems to me , the first thing you've got to do , to be happy , is to face up to your problems , no matter what they may be .
Many of you will say , `` Well , what can I do '' ? ?
Believe me ! !
True ! !
Do you like to sew ? ?
Then again , there's always that lovely old pastime of hooking or braiding rugs .
Well ! !
How about the art of cooking ? ?
Some people can carve most anything out of a piece of wood .
Some women get a real thrill out of housework .
Perhaps you would like to become a writer .
Ever since I was a child , I have always had a yen to try my hand at writing .
Then there's always hobbies , collecting stamps , coins , timetables , salt and pepper shakers , elephants , dogs , dolls , shells , or shall we just say collecting anything your heart desires ? ?
I can hear some of you folks protesting .
True ! !
As for me , I am holding in reserve two huge puzzles ( I love puzzles ) to put together when time hangs heavy on my hands .
So in closing , fellow retired members , I advise you to make the most of each day , enjoy each one to the n'th degree .
Good Luck ! !
All living creatures from the lowest form of insect or animal life evidence the power of creativity , if it is only to reproduce a form like their own .
It has been truly said that anything man can imagine he can produce or create by projecting this inner image into its counterpart in the objective world .
Not only can man project his imagination out into his environment in concrete forms , but even more importantly , he can turn it inward to help create new and better forms of himself .
So far in history man has been too greatly over-occupied with projecting things into his environment rather than first creating the sort of person who can make the highest use of the things he has created .
Sir Julian Huxley in his book Uniqueness Of Man makes the novel point that just as man is unique in being the only animal which requires a long period of infancy and childhood under family protection , so is he the only animal who has a long period after the decline of his procreativity .
Some recent writings assume that the ignorant young couples are a thing of the remote , Victorian past ; ;
Perhaps -- but extensive discussions with contemporary practitioners , family doctors and gynecologists indicate that this is still an area of enormous ignorance .
Various factors in the setting can still be of great advantage in making the first intercourse a good rather than a bad memory for one or both .
If the wedding party lasted late , and the travel schedule means there are only a few hours before resuming the trip or making an early start , the husband may forestall tensions and uncertainties by confiding to his bride that lying in each other's arms will be bliss enough for these few hours .
First intercourse for the bride brings with it the various problems connected with virginity and the hymen .
One thing should be clear to both husband and wife -- neither pain nor profuse bleeding has to occur when the hymen is ruptured during the first sex act .
The hymen is , in essence , a fragile membrane that more or less completely covers the entrance to the vagina in most female human beings who have not had sex relations .
Often it is thin and fragile and gives way readily to the male organ at the first attempt at intercourse .
It is also important to realize that many girls are born without a hymen or at most only a tiny trace of one ; ;
But there is a basis in fact for the exaggerations of the folk-lore beliefs .
Extreme cases are on record in which the doctor has had to use instruments to cut through the hymen to permit marital relations to be consummated .
In recent times , when sexual matters began to be discussed more scientifically and more openly , the emotional aspects of virginity received considerable attention .
Gynecologists and marriage manuals began to advise that the bride should consult a physician before marriage .
As a natural outgrowth of this approach it was often suggested that the doctor should complete the preparation for painless intercourse by dilating the vagina .
This recommendation was based on the fact that the hymen was not the only barrier to smooth consummation of the sex act .
The intricate system of muscles that manage the contraction and dilatation of the vagina are partly under voluntary control .
The advantages of dilatation by the physician are both physical and psychological .
In this process the vaginal muscles come under better conscious control by the girl .
Apart from the standard problem of controlling the vaginal muscles , other serious barriers may exist that need special gynecological treatment .
When no medical problems exist , the newly married couple generally prefer to cope with the adjustments of their new relationship by themselves .
The importance of loving tenderness is obvious .
Extensive observations by physicians during vaginal examinations have established the fact that a single finger inserted along the anterior wall ( the top line of the vagina as the woman lies on her back ) may cause a great deal of distress in a virgin .
These regional differences of sensitivity to pain may be of crucial significance during the earliest intercourse .
In fact , the technical procedure in medical examinations may be wisely adapted to his romantic purposes by the husband during the honeymoon .
Locker-room talk often stresses the idea that a man is doing the girl a favor if he is forceful and ruthless during the first penetration .
Such talk is seriously in error .
The pain and distress associated with the performance may easily give the wife a deep-seated dread of marital relations and cause her , unconsciously , to make the sex act unpleasant and difficult for both by exercising her vaginal muscles to complicate his penetration instead of relaxing them to facilitate it .
Serious attention must also be given to the husband's problems in the honeymoon situation .
Or the frequent need to check and discipline himself to the wisest pace of the consummation can put him off stride and make it impossible for him to be continuously ready for penetration over a long period .
The best course is to recover his physical excitement by a change of pace that makes him ardent again .
Now while he uses talk , caresses or requires caresses from her , his bride will sympathetically understand the situation and eagerly help him restore his physical situation so they can have the consummation they both so eagerly desire .
A final word .
Only under rare circumstances would a bride experience an orgasm during her first intercourse .
If the early approaches are wise , understanding and patient , the satisfactions of marital fulfillment will probably be discovered before the marriage is much older .
Writing in a large volume on the nude in painting and sculptures , titled The Nude : A Study In Ideal Form , Kenneth Clark declares : `` The human body , as a nucleus , is rich in associations .
Perhaps this is a clue to the amazing variety and power of reactions , attitudes , and emotions precipitated by the nude form .
The wide divergence of reactions is clearly illustrated in the Kinsey studies in human sexuality .
Such understanding helps to explain why one matron celebrating thirty-five years of married life could declare with some pride that her husband had `` never seen her entirely naked '' , while another woman , boasting an equal number of years of married life , is proud of having `` shared the nudist way of life -- the really free , natural nude life -- for most of that period '' .
Attempts at censorship always involve and reveal such complex and multiple individual reactions .
The equally ardent proponent of freedom from any kind of censorship may find the nude human form the `` natural , honest , free expression of man's spirit and the epitome of beauty and inspiration '' .
One is always a little surprised to bump into such individual distinctions when it is unexpected .
In tradition and in poetry , the marriage bed is a place of unity and harmony .
At its most ecstatic moments , husband and wife are elevated far above worldly cares .
This is the ideal .
In a growing number of American homes , marriage counselors report , the wife is taking a commanding role in sexual relationships .
Beyond a certain point , of course , no woman can be dominant -- nature has seen to that .
Of course , there remain many `` old-fashioned '' marriages in which the husband maintains his supremacy .
To many experts , this trend was inevitable .
`` The sexual relationship does not exist in a vacuum '' , declares Dr. Mary Steichen Calderone , medical director of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America and author of the recent book , Release From Sexual Tensions .
Yet many psychologists and marriage counselors agree that domination of the sex relationship by one partner or the other can be unhealthy and even dangerous .
When a husband is sexually selfish and heedless of his wife's desires , she is cheated of the fulfillment and pleasure nature intended for her .
On the other hand , wifely supremacy demeans the husband , saps his self-respect , and robs him of his masculinity .
`` A marriage can survive almost any kind of stress except an open and direct challenge to the husband's maleness '' , declares Dr. Calderone .
`` When the roles of husband and wife are reversed , so that the wife becomes leader and the husband follower '' , Dr. Linden says , `` the effects on their whole relationship , sexual and otherwise , can be disastrous '' .
In one extreme case , cited by a Pittsburgh psychologist , an office worker's wife refused to have sexual relations with her husband unless he bought her the luxuries she demanded .
More typical is the case of a suburban Long Island housewife described by a marriage counselor .
One wife , described by a New York psychologist , so dominated her husband that she actually placed their sexual relationship on a schedule , writing it down right between the weekly PTA meetings and the Thursday-night neighborhood card parties .
Experts say the partners in marriages like these can almost be typed .
The wife is likely to be young , sophisticated , smart as a whip -- often a girl who has sacrificed a promising career for marriage .
The husband is usually a well-educated professional , preoccupied with his job -- often an organization man whose motto for getting ahead is : `` Don't rock the boat '' .
Sometimes this leads to his becoming demandingly dominant in marriage .
More often , though , he is so accustomed to submitting to authority on the job without argument that he lives by the same rule at home .
Some psychologists , in fact , suggest that career-bound husbands often are more to blame for topsy-turvy marriages than their wives .
Naturally no woman can ever completely monopolize the sexual initiative .
`` The pattern '' , says Dr. Morton Schillinger , psychologist at New York's Lincoln Institute for Psychotherapy , `` is for the husband to hover about anxiously and eagerly , virtually trembling in his hope that she will flash him the signal that tonight is the night '' .
No one seriously contends , of course , that the domineering wife is , sexually speaking , a new character in our world .
Furthermore , Dr. Calderone says , a certain number of docile , retiring men always have been around .
But such cases were , in the past , unusual .
Family survival on our own Western frontier , for example , could quite literally depend on a man's strength and ability to bring home the bacon ; ;
This carried over into the more urbanized late 19th and early 20th centuries , when the man ruled the roost in the best bull-roaring Life With Father manner .
In those days , a wife had mighty few rights in the domestic sphere and even fewer in the sexual sphere .
When was the turning point ? ?
Some date it from woman suffrage , others from when women first began to challenge men in the marketplace , still others from the era of the emancipated flapper and bathtub gin .
Left alone while her husband was miles away in the city , the modern wife assumed more and more duties normally reserved for the male .
`` Very few wives '' , says Dr. Calderone , `` who balance the checkbook , fix the car , choose where the family will live and deal with the tradesmen , are suddenly going to become submissive where sex is concerned .
And an additional factor was helping to make women more sexually self-assertive -- the comparatively recent discovery of the true depths of female desire and response .
In fact , the noted psychologist and sex researcher , Dr. Albert Ellis , has declared flatly that women are `` sexually superior '' to men .
Yet , paradoxically , according to Dr. Maurice Linden , many wives despise their husbands for not standing up to them .
One such wife , Dr. Linden says , became disgusted with her weak husband and flurried through a series of extramarital affairs in the hope of finding a stronger man .
In some cases , however , domination of the sex act by one partner can be temporary , triggered by a passing but urgent emotional need .
On the other hand , a husband who always has been vigorous and assertive may suddenly become passive -- asking , psychologists say , for reassurance that his wife still finds him desirable .
In any case , Dr. Calderone remarks , such problems are a couple's own affair , and can't always be measured by a general yardstick .
Other experts say , however , that if sexual domination by one or the other partner exists for longer than a brief period , it is likely to shake the marriage .
`` To get a marriage back where it belongs '' , comments Dr. Schillinger of the Lincoln Institute , `` the husband must take some very basic steps .
Too many husbands , Dr. Schillinger continues , worry about `` how well they're doing '' , and fear that their success depends on some trick or technique of sexual play .
She gave herself a title , Lady Diana Harrington .
The New York D.A. gave her another , The Golden Girl of cafe society .
Houston police gave her a third , less flamboyant , title , prostitute .
And Houston police have the final say in the matter since she died there on September 20 , 1960 , `` Diane Harris Graham , 30 , D.O.A. , circumstances -- unusual '' .
Early in her life she had discovered that where there were men , there was money , and with the two came luxury and liquor .
She never hid the fact that she liked to play .
It was the trial of oleomargarine heir Minot ( Mickey ) Jelke for compulsory prostitution in New York that put the spotlight on the international play-girl .
Diane was needed as a material witness in the case and New York police searched three continents before they found her in their own back yard -- in a swank hotel , of course .
It was when she was seized as a material witness that she got the designation she liked best .
Clad in mink and diamonds , she listened to Assistant District Attorney Anthony Liebler describe her to the arraigning judge :
`` This girl is the Golden Girl of cafe society .
`` In 1951 she was a prostitute in New York County .
`` At Deauville she met an Egyptian by the name of Pulley Bey .
`` We have checked her in different parts of Europe and Egypt and finally back into this country .
`` Our information is that she gave the proceeds of her acts to Jelke '' .
Diane sobbingly denied this to the court .
`` That's a lie .
During the course of the trial , Jelke backed up part of that statement .
`` Diane is the type of girl '' , Jelke said , `` who wouldn't get loving -- even on her wedding night -- unless you piled up all your money in the middle of the floor '' .
But she seemed to have underestimated the number of her `` boy friends '' .
She came to New York from Detroit as a teenager , but with a `` sponsor '' instead of a chaperone .
The screen test was never made -- but Diane was .
She seemed so anxious to go on the stage that some of her friends in the cocktail circuit set up a practical joke .
An ex-fighter was introduced to her in a bar as `` Mr. Warfield , the famous producer '' .
`` I'd love to audition for you '' , she gushed .
The audition was held a few minutes later in somebody's apartment .
After a few minutes he said , `` I can't use you if you dance like that .
She hastily complied .
She developed another quaint habit .
When the date would try to bid her good-night at the door , she would tell him , `` If you go home now , I'll scream '' .
One who needed no such threats was a French financier .
In an anonymous interview with a French newspaper the financier told of spending several months with her .
The Greek evidently fell for her , `` Monsieur X '' recounted , and to clinch what he thought was an affair in the making he gave her 100,000 francs ( about $300 ) and led her to the roulette tables .
She could do no wrong at the tables that time .
The luxury of Paris' most fashionable hotel , the George 5 , , bored the beautifully-built blonde , so she high-tailed it to Rome .
She teamed up with another beauty , whose name has been lost to history , and commenced with some fiddling that would have made Nero envious .
To climax her Roman revels , she was thrown out of the swanky Hotel Excelsior after she had run naked through its marble halls screaming for help .
It was a rugged finish for what must have been a very interesting night .
Discreet Italian police described it in a manner typically continental .
`` There had been a threesome at the party in the suite's bedroom : Miss Harrington ( this was Diane's choice for a Roman name ) , another woman who has figured in other very interesting events and one of your well-known American actors .
`` The actor had had much to drink and apparently became very violent .
`` They were wearing nothing but their scratches .
The girls , after dressing , were indignant .
`` You can't do this to us '' , Diane screamed .
In the morning she found rooms directly across from the Excelsior at the equally luxurious Hotel Ambassador .
With the Ambassador as headquarters , she continued to promote good will abroad .
By this time Diane was a beguiling lass of 19 and still seeking her place in the world .
A close friend of hers in the Roman days described it this way :
`` It was a strange relationship .
`` Pulley Bey insisted that she bestow her favors on him '' , the friend continued .
No believer in the traditional devotion of royal servitors , the plump Pulley broke the language barrier and lured her to Cairo where she waited for nine months , vainly hoping to see Farouk .
Pulley had set her up at the Semiramis Hotel , but she grew impatient waiting for a royal reception and moved to a luxurious apartment to which the royal pimp had no key .
She picked her own Middle-Eastern friends from the flock of ardent Egyptians that buzzed around her .
`` So extensive became her circle of admirers '' , Egyptian police said , `` that her escapades caused distrust '' .
The roof was about ready to fall in on Diane's little world , but it took nothing less than the Egyptian revolution to bring it down .
The cagey Pulley Bey , who spoke no English , had taken the passport so that Diane couldn't leave the country without his approval .
And return to the United States she did , into waiting arms -- the unromantic ones of the New York District Attorney's office .
Held as a material witness in the compulsory prostitution trial of Mickey Jelke , the comely courtesan was unable to raise bail and was committed to the Women's House of Detention , a terribly overcrowded prison .
It is a tribute to her talents that she was able to talk the District Attorney into having her removed from the prison to a hotel room , with her meals taken at Vesuvio's , an excellent Italian restaurant .
Newspapers at the time noted that the move indicated that she was co-operating with the District Attorney .
With the end of the trial Diane disappeared from New York .
Several years ago she married a Houston business man , Robert Graham .
Houston police got to know Diane two years ago when the vice squad picked her up for questioning about a call girl ring .
The next time the police saw her she was dead .
It was September 20 , 1960 , in a lavishly decorated apartment littered with liquor bottles .
McClellan , who had once lost his medical license temporarily on a charge of drug addiction , was with her when she died .
When the police arrived , they found McClellan and the two lawyers sitting and staring silently .
The blonde's nude body was in bed , a green sheet and a pink blanket covered her .
An autopsy disclosed a large amount of morphine in Diane's body .
`` I think that maybe she wanted it this way '' , a vice squad cop said .
I work for one of the biggest chains of retail carpet houses in the East .
I am selling the stuff of which is made one of the Great American Dreams -- wall-to-wall carpeting .
There is only one trouble with this big , beautiful dream .
People come to me with confidence .
But I knowingly abuse their confidence .
Franklin D. Lee proved a man of prompt action when Mrs. Claire Shaefer , accompanied by a friend , visited him in Bakersfield , California , several months ago as a prospective patient .
As he applied the applicator extending from the machine -- which consisted of seven differently colored neon tubes superimposed on a rectangular base -- to the supposedly diseased portions of Mrs. Shaefer's body , Lee kept up a steady stream of pseudo-scientific mumbo-jumbo .
`` Don't you worry .
`` Cancer '' ! !
`` You have it , all right .
He urged her to buy one of his machines -- for $300 .
Lee renewed his pressure on Mrs. Shaefer to buy his machine when she visited him the next day .
When she submitted to his treatment with the capsules , Mrs. Shaefer felt intense pain .
Mrs. Shaefer never got around to joining the thousand or so people who paid Lee some $30,000 for his ozone machines .
An isolated case of quackery ? ?
With these gadgets -- impressive to the gullible because of their flashing light bulbs , ticks , and buzzes -- he then carries out a vicious medical con game , capitalizing on people's respect for the electrical and atomic wonders of our scientific age .
The gadget faker operates or sells his phony machines for $5 to $10,000 -- anything the traffic will bear .
The medical device pirate of today , of course , is a far more sophisticated operator than his predecessor of yesteryear -- the gallus-snapping hawker of snake oil and other patent medicines .
According to the Food And Drug Administration ( FDA ) , `` Doctor '' Ghadiali , Dr. Albert Abrams and his clique , and Dr. Wilhelm Reich -- to name three notorious device quacks -- succeeded , respectively , in distributing 10,000 , 5000 , and 2000 fake health machines .
Authorities believe that many of the Doctor Frauds using these false health gadgets are still in business .
That's why the FDA , the American Medical Association ( AMA ) , and the National Better Business Bureau ( BBB ) have estimated the toll of mechanical quackery to be a substantial portion of the $610 million or so paid to medical charlatans annually .
The Postmaster General recently reported that mail order frauds -- among which fake therapeutic devices figure prominently -- are at the highest level in history .
Authorities hesitate to quote exact figures , however , believing that any sum they come up with is only a surface manifestation -- turned up by their inevitably limited policing -- of the real loot of the medical racketeer .
The economic toll that the device quack extracts is important , of course .
Typically , Sarah Gross and Mr. A both lost more than their money as the result of their experiences with their Cleveland quacks .
Mr. A. , her fellow townsman , also experienced a nervous breakdown just as soon as he discovered that he had been bilked of his life savings by the limited practitioner who had been treating his wife -- a woman suffering from an incurable disease , multiple sclerosis -- and himself .
And there was the case of Tom Hepker , a machinist , who was referred by a friend to a health machine quack who treated him with a so-called diagnostic machine for what Doctor Fraud said was a system full of arsenic and strychnine .
But the machine quack can cause far more than just suffering .
In Chicago , some time ago , Mr. H. , age 27 , a diabetic since he was six , stopped using insulin because he had bought a `` magic spike '' -- a glass tube about the size of a pencil filled with barium chloride worth a small fraction of a cent -- sold by the Vrilium Company of Chicago for $306 as a cure-all .
Doris Hull , suffering from tuberculosis , was taken by her husband to see Otis G. Carroll , a sanipractor -- a licensed drugless healer -- in Spokane .
His prescription : hot and cold compresses to increase her absorption of water .
In California , a few years ago , a ghoul by the name of H. F. Bell sold electric blankets as a cure for cancer .
By no means are these isolated cases .
Death ! !
Who are the victims of the device quacks ? ?
Ten-year-old Richard Stewart had been irritable and quarrelsome for almost a year .
Mr. and Mrs. Stewart were puzzled and concerned .
When Richard's parents told him they wanted to take him to an orthodontist -- a dentist who specializes in realigning teeth and jaws -- their young son was interested .
Richard Stewart is no special case .
What do parents need to know about those `` years of the braces '' in order not to waste a child's time and their money ? ?
Tooth fit explained
These two basic malformations have , of course , many variations .
Crooked , overlapping , twisted , or widely spaced teeth .
Front teeth not meeting when the back teeth close .
Upper teeth completely covering the lowers when the back teeth close .
The eyeteeth ( third from the middle on top , counting each front tooth as the first ) beginning to protrude like fangs .
Second teeth that have come in before the first ones have fallen out , making a double row .
Contrary to the thinking of 30 to 40 years ago , when all malocclusion was blamed on some unfortunate habit , recent studies show that most tooth irregularity has at least its beginning in hereditary predisposition .
Tooth deformity may be the result of excessive thumb- or finger-sucking , tongue-thrusting , or lip-sucking -- but it's important to remember that there's a difference between normal and excessive sucking habits .
Malocclusion can also result if baby teeth are lost too soon or retained too long .
Correction can save teeth
Bad alignment may result in early loss of teeth through a breakdown of the bony structure that supports their roots .
Then , too , misplaced or jammed-together teeth are prone to trapping food particles , increasing the likelihood of rapid decay .
The failure of teeth to fit together when closed interferes with normal chewing , so that a child may swallow food whole and put a burden on his digestive system .
The when and how of straightening
In the period from 10 to 14 the permanent set of teeth is usually completed , yet the continuing growth of bony tissue makes moving badly placed teeth comparatively easy .
What can 10-year-old Susan expect when she enters the orthodontist's office ? ?
If he decides to proceed , he will custom-make for Susie an appliance consisting of bands , plastic plates , fine wires , and tiny springs .
`` If teeth are moved too rapidly , serious injury can be done to their roots as well as to the surrounding bone holding them in place '' , explains Dr. Brodie .
During the first few days of wearing the appliance and immediately following each adjustment , Susan may have a slight discomfort or soreness , but after a short time this will disappear .
Next Susie will enter the treatment stage and visit the orthodontist once or twice a month , depending on the severity of her condition .
Last comes the retention stage .
Then comes the time when the last wire is removed and Susie walks out a healthier and more attractive girl than when she first went to the orthodontist .
How long will this take ? ?
What is the cost ? ?
The charge for a complete full-banded job differs in various parts of the country .
`` Factors in the cost of treatment are the length of time involved and the skill and education of the practitioner '' , says Dr. Brodie .
To become an orthodontist , a man must first be licensed by his state as a dentist , then he must spend at least two years in additional training to acquire a license as a specialist .
`` Costs may seem high , but they used to be even higher '' , says Dr. Brodie .
The reason ? ?
Most orthodontists require an initial payment to cover the cost of diagnostic materials and construction of the appliances , but usually the remainder of the cost may be spread over a period of months or years .
Research helps families
`` In the past anyone who said that 90% of all malocclusion is hereditary was scoffed at ; ;
This knowledge both modifies and dictates diagnosis and treatment .
In other cases , in view of present-day knowledge of head growth , orthodontists will recommend waiting four or five years before treatment .
That is why Dr. Brodie asks parents not to insist , against their dentist's advice , that their child have orthodontic work done too early .
Superior new material for orthodontic work is another result of research .
Prevention is best
`` After your child's baby teeth are all in -- usually at the age of two and one half to three -- it's time for that first dental appointment '' , Dr. Brodie advises .
To help prevent orthodontic problems from arising , your dentist can do these things :
From time to time the medium mentions other people `` around him '' , who were `` on the other side '' , and reports what they are saying .
Another medium , another sitter , would produce a somewhat different content , but in general it would probably sound much like the foregoing reading .
The mediums with whom the Parapsychology Foundation is working in this experiment are in a waking or only slightly dissociated state , so that the sitter can make comments , ask and answer questions , instead of talking with a `` control '' who speaks through an entranced sensitive .
But it is not really only a conversation .
However , in the next visit that the researcher made to the medium , he did not receive a personal reading .
As was noted earlier , it is important that in valid , objective study of this sort of communication , the interested sitter should be separated from the sensitive .
The possibility has to be ruled out that the medium's ESP may tap the memory of the sitter , and to do this , the two central characters in this drama must be separated .
One way to do this is by `` proxy sittings '' , wherein the person seeking a message does not himself meet with the medium but is represented by a substitute , the proxy sitter .
Sometimes in these experiments `` appointment sittings '' are used .
So this proxy situation has set up at least a partial barrier between the medium's ESP and the absent sitter's mind .
Now the original absent sitter must decide whether the statements are meaningful to him .
To get around this quite difficult corner , there is one first aid to objectiveness : prevent the distant sitter from knowing which reading was for him .
Conversely , experimenters would consider as impressive such statements as the following , which , if they turned out to be hits , are so unusual as to be really significant :
`` He had four children , two sets of twins .
Methods have been developed of assigning `` weights '' to statements ; ;
In the parapsychology foundation's long-range experiment , readings are made by a variety of sensitives for a large number of cooperating sitters , trying to throw light on this question of the significance of mediumistic statements .
So , after the sitting has been held , several readings at one time are mailed , and the distant sitter ( whose name or whose communicator's name was given to the medium ) must mark each little item as Correct ( Hit ) , Incorrect ( Miss ) , Doubtful , or Especially Significant ( applying to him and , he feels , not to anyone else ) .
Conversely , if he gives a heavy rating to his own reading , and finds more accurate facts in it than in the others , a point is chalked up for the intrinsic , objective meaningfulness of this type of mediumistic material .
In another approach to the same procedure , the content of the readings is analyzed so as to see how the particular medium is likely to slant her statements .
Mediumistic impressions are evidently of all sorts and seem to involve all the senses .
If asked how she gets her impressions , she probably can only say that she `` just gets them '' -- some more vividly than others .
Of course , there is an element of training here : these gifted people , by concentration , study , guidance , have learned to develop their power .
Nor does a medium automatically know how to interpret her imagery .
During one reading an image appeared of a prisoner in irons .
Farming is confining .
Livestock must be tended every day , routinely .
Even if there are no livestock , the farmer cannot leave the farm for long periods , particularly during the growing season .
The worker who lives on a farm cannot change jobs readily .
Hard physical labor and undesirable hours are a part of life .
It may not be profitable for a part-time farmer to own the labor-saving machinery that a full-time farmer can invest in profitably .
Production may fall far below expectations .
Returns for money and labor invested may be small even in a good year .
The high cost of land , supplies , and labor make it difficult to farm profitably on a part-time basis .
A part-time farmer needs unusual skill to get as high production per hen , per cow , or per acre as can be obtained by a competent full-time farmer .
The farm may be an additional burden if the main job is lost .
If the farm is rented , the rent must be paid .
A farm provides a wholesome and healthful environment for children .
Part-time farming gives a measure of security if the regular job is lost , provided the farm is owned free of debt and furnishes enough income to meet fixed expenses and minimum living costs .
For some retired persons , part-time farming is a good way to supplement retirement income .
Generally , the same level of living costs less in the country than in the city .
A part-time farmer and his family can use their spare time profitably .
Some persons consider the work on a farm recreational .
Land , labor , and equipment needed
General requirements for land , labor , and equipment are discussed below .
If you want to raise feed or carry out some enterprise on a larger scale , you'll need more land .
In deciding how much land you want , take into account the amount you'll need to bring in the income you expect .
Sometimes a desired acreage is offered only as part of a larger tract .
In deciding on the enterprises to be managed by family labor , compare the amount of labor that can be supplied by the family with the labor needs of various enterprises listed in table 1 .
List the number of hours the family can be expected to work each month .
For larger plantings , you'll need some kind of power for plowing , harrowing , disking , and cultivating .
Cost of power and machinery is often a serious problem to the small-scale farmer .
You can keep your machinery investment down by buying good secondhand machinery , by sharing the cost and upkeep of machinery with a neighbor , and by hiring someone with machinery to do certain jobs .
Selecting a farm
Information on pages 8 to 14 may help you in deciding on the kind and scale of your farming venture .
If you are not well acquainted with the area in which you wish to locate , or if you are not sure that you and your family will like and make a success of farming , usually you would do better to rent a place for a year or two before you buy .
Discussed below are some of the main things to look for when you select a part-time farm .
Obviously the farm should be on an all-weather road .
Find out whether fire protection , sewage system , gas , water mains , and electrical lines are available in the locality .
You cannot get along without an adequate supply of pure water .
Buying a farm
The value of the products you can raise on it .
The possibilities of selling the property later on for suburban subdivision .
Decide first what the place is worth to you and your family as a home in comparison with what it would cost to live in town .
Next , estimate the value of possible earnings of the farm .
To find estimated net farm income , subtract estimated annual farming expenditures from probable gross income from farming .
To figure the value of the farm in terms of investment income , divide the estimated annual net farm income by the percentage that you could expect to get in interest if the money were invested in some other way .
Everyone with a personal or group tragedy to relate had to be given his day in court as in some vast collective dirge .
Most of this testimony may have been legally admissible as bearing on the corpus delicti of the total Nazi crime but seemed subject to question when not tied to the part in it of the defendant's Department of Jewish Affairs .
But there was a contrast even more decisive than a hunger for fact between the Trial in Jerusalem and those in Moscow and New York .
`` It is not an individual that is in the dock at this historical trial '' -- said Ben Gurion , `` and not the Nazi regime alone -- but anti-Semitism throughout history '' .
It might be contended , of course , that Eichmann in stubbornly denying anti-Semitic feelings was lying or insisting on a private definition of anti-Semitism .
But if the Trial did not expose the special Nazi mania so deadly to Jews as well as to anyone upon whom it happened to light , neither did it warn very effectively against the ordinary anti-Semitism of which the Nazis made such effective use in Germany and wherever else they could find it .
What more could be asked for a Trial intended to warn the world against anti-Semitism than this opportunity to expose the exact link between the respectable Anti-Semite and the concentration-camp brute ? ?
Nor did the Trial devote much attention to exposing the usefulness of anti-Semitism to the Nazis , both in building their own power and in destroying that of rival organizations and states .
Finally , if the mission of the Trial was to convict anti-Semitism , how could it have failed to post before the world the contrasting fates of the countries in which the Final Solution was aided by native Jew-haters -- i.e. , Germany , Poland , Hungary , Czechoslovakia -- and those in which it met the obstacle of human solidarity -- Denmark , Holland , Italy , Bulgaria , France ? ?
As the first collective confrontation of the Nazi outrage , the Trial of Eichmann represents a recovery of the Jews from the shock of the death camps , a recovery that took fifteen years and which is still by no means complete ( though let no one believe that it could be hastened by silence ) .
In Poughkeepsie , N.Y. , , in 1952 , a Roman Catholic hospital presented seven Protestant physicians with an ultimatum to quit the Planned Parenthood Federation or to resign from the hospital staff .
In New York City in 1958 , the city's Commissioner of Hospitals refused to permit a physician to provide a Protestant mother with a contraceptive device .
A year later in Albany , N.Y. , a Roman Catholic hospital barred an orthopedic surgeon because of his connection with the Planned Parenthood Association .
These incidents , typical of many others , dramatize the distressing fact that no controversy during the last several decades has caused more tension , rancor and strife among religious groups in this country than the birth-control issue .
The time has come for citizens of all faiths to unite in an effort to remove this divisive and nettlesome issue from the political and social life of our nation .
The first step toward the goal is the establishment of a new atmosphere of mutual good will and friendly communication on other than the polemical level .
`` All too frequently '' , points out James O'Gara , managing editor of Commonweal , `` Catholics run roughshod over Protestant sensibilities in this matter , by failure to consider the reasoning behind the Protestant position and , particularly , by their jibes at the fact that Protestant opinion on birth control has changed in recent decades '' .
The second step is to recognize the substantial agreement -- frequently blurred by emotionalism and inaccurate newspaper reporting -- already existing between Catholics and Non-Catholics concerning the over-all objectives of family planning .
Pope Pius 12 , declared in 1951 that it is possible to be exempt from the normal obligation of parenthood for a long time and even for the whole duration of married life , if there are serious reasons , such as those often mentioned in the so-called medical , eugenic , economic and social `` indications '' .
These are substantially the same factors considered by Non-Catholics in family planning .
Catholics , Protestants and Jews are in agreement over the objectives of family planning , but disagree over the methods to be used .
There is a difference in theological belief where there seems little chance of agreement .
The Roman Catholic natural-law tradition regards as self-evident that the primary objective purpose of the conjugal act is procreation and that the fostering of the mutual love of the spouses is the secondary and subjective end .
Thus , man can readily deduce that the primary objective end of the conjugal act is procreation , the propagation of the race .
Let it be granted then that the theological differences in this area between Protestants and Roman Catholics appear to be irreconcilable .
It is always a temptation for a religious organization , especially a powerful or dominant one , to impose through the clenched fist of the law its creedal viewpoint upon others .
Consider what happened during World War 1 , , when the Protestant churches united to push the Prohibition law through Congress .
That tumultuous , painful and costly experience shows clearly that a law expressing a moral judgment cannot be enforced when it has little correspondence with the general view of society .
Up to the turn of the century , contraception was condemned by all Christian churches as immoral , unnatural and contrary to divine law .
In 1920 , the Lambeth Conference repeated its 1908 condemnation of contraception and issued `` an emphatic warning against the use of unnatural means for the avoidance of conception , together with the grave dangers -- physical , moral , and religious -- thereby incurred , and against the evils which the extension of such use threaten the race '' .
In 1930 , the Lambeth Conference again affirmed the primary purpose of marriage to be the procreation of children , but conceded that , in certain limited circumstances , contraception might be morally legitimate .
In 1958 , the Conference endorsed birth control as the responsibility laid by God on parents everywhere .
Many other Protestant denominations preceded the Anglicans in such action .
Since then , many Protestant denominations have made separate pronouncements , in which they not only approved birth control , but declared it at times to be a religious duty .
This development is reflected in the action taken in February , 1961 , by the general board of the National Council of Churches , the largest Protestant organization in the Aj .
The general board declared : `` Most of the Protestant churches hold contraception and periodic continence to be morally right when the motives are right .
An action once universally condemned by all Christian churches and forbidden by the civil law is now not only approved by the overwhelming majority of Protestant denominations , but also deemed , at certain times , to be a positive religious duty .
For all concerned with social-welfare legislation , the significance of this radical and revolutionary change in the thought and habits of the vast majority of the American people is clear , profound and far-reaching .
This brings us to the fact that the realities we are dealing with lie not in the field of civil legislation , but in the realm of conscience and religion : They are moral judgments and matters of theological belief .
On April 17 , 1610 , the sturdy little three-masted bark , Discovery , weighed anchor in St. Katherine's Pool , London , and floated down the Thames toward the sea .
Seventeen months later , on September 6 , 1611 , an Irish fishing boat sighted the Discovery limping eastward outside Galway Bay .
What disaster struck the Discovery during those seventeen months ? ?
But since 1927 , researchers digging into ancient court records and legal files have been able to find illuminating pieces of information .
Historians have had two reasons for persisting so long in their investigations .
The name : Henry Hudson .
This is the story of his last tragic voyage , as nearly as we are able -- or ever , probably , will be able -- to determine :
The sailing in the spring of 1610 was Hudson's fourth in four years .
In 1609 , the Dutch East India Company hired Hudson , gave him two learned geographers , fitted him out with a ship called the Half Moon , and supplied him with Dutch sailors .
When the Half Moon put in at Dartmouth , England , in the fall of 1609 , word of Hudson's findings leaked out , and English interest in him revived .
The purpose of this fourth voyage was clear .
But there remained one mysterious , unexplored gap , far to the north .
In 1602 , George Waymouth , in the same little Discovery that Hudson now commanded , had sailed 300 miles up the strait before his frightened men turned the ship back .
Even Hudson , experienced in Arctic sailing and determined as he was , must have had qualms as he slid down the Thames .
Worse , his present crew included five men who had sailed with him before .
But men willing to sail at all into waters where wooden ships could be crushed like eggs were hard to find .
It is believed that Hudson was related to other seafaring men of the Muscovy Company and was trained on company ships .
Hudson's first error of the fourth voyage occurred only a few miles down the Thames .
For the first three weeks , the ship skirted up the east coast of Great Britain , then turned westward .
Early in June , the Discovery passed `` Desolation '' ( southern Greenland ) and in mid-June entered the `` Furious Overfall '' .
As the bergs grew larger , Hudson was forced to turn south into what is now Ungava Bay , an inlet of the Great Strait .
The trouble was at least partly Juet's doing .
Instead of quelling the dissension , as many captains of the era would have done ( Sir Francis Drake lopped a man's head off under similar circumstances ) , Hudson decided to be reasonable .
When Hudson had finished , the `` town meeting '' broke down into a general , wordy argument .
All through July the Discovery picked her way along the 450-mile-long strait , avoiding ice and rocky islands .
Hudson pointed the Discovery down the east coast of the newly discovered sea ( now called Hudson Bay ) , confident he was on his way to the warm waters of the Pacific .
This must have been Hudson's blackest discovery .
Feverishly , he tried to brush away this intuition .
The men were at first puzzled , then angered by the aimless tacking .
The trial was held September 10 .
Hudson deposed Juet and cut his pay .
As Hudson resumed his desperate criss-crossing of the little bay , every incident lessened the crew's respect for him .
Thomas Douglas , fifth Earl of Selkirk , a noble humanitarian Scot concerned with the plight of the crofters of his native Highlands , conceived a plan to settle them in the valley of the Red River of the North .
Seven hundred miles south of York Factory , at `` the Forks '' of the Red and the Assiniboine , twenty-three men located a settlement in August 1812 .
It was the low yield of the Selkirk plots and the ravages of grasshoppers in 1818 that led to the dispersal of the settlement southward .
The Selkirk settlers had been anticipated in their move southward by British fur traders .
It was Dickson who suggested to Lord Selkirk that he return to the Atlantic coast by way of the United States .
The route which he had traveled and which he believed might develop into a trade route was followed by his settlers earlier than he might have expected .
Activity by British traders and the presence of a colony on the Red prompted the United State War Department in 1819 to send Lieutenant-Colonel Henry Leavenworth from Detroit to put a post 300 miles northwest of Prairie Du Chien , until then the most advanced United States post .
It was from the American outposts that Red River shortages of livestock were to be made good .
As these Swiss were moving from the Selkirk settlement to become the first civilian residents of Minnesota , Dousman of Michilimackinac , Michigan , and Prairie Du Chien was traveling to Red River to open a trade in merchandise .
For its part the Hudson's Bay Company was troubled by the approach of American settlement .
At Fort Garry some of the Swiss also decided to cast their lot with the United States , and in 1823 several families paid guides to take them to Fort Snelling .
Below the fort , high bluffs extended uninterruptedly for six miles along the Mississippi River .
While population at Fort Garry increased rapidly , from 2,417 in 1831 to 4,369 in 1840 , economic opportunities did not increase at a similar rate .
With their customary source of supply cut off , the Fort Garry free traders engaged three men to cart goods to them from the Mississippi country .
The trade in a few commodities noted above was to grow in volume as a result of changes both north and south of the 49th parallel .
The letters of the common soldiers are rich in humor .
3 ,
Initiation into combat sometimes elicited from soldier correspondents choice comments about their experiences and reactions .
Some of the choicest remarks made by soldiers in their letters were in disparagement of unpopular officers .
Similar comments about officers are to be found in the letters of Northern soldiers .
No group of officers came in for more spirited denunciation than the doctors .
The attitudes which the Rebs and Yanks took toward each other were very much the same and ranged over the same gamut of feeling , from friendliness to extreme hatred .
The popularity of folklore in America stands in direct proportion to the popularity of nationalism in America .
Historians have come to recognize two cardinal facts concerning nationalism and international influence .
One can apply these facts to Britain in the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries as she spread her dominion over palm and pine , and they can be applied again to the United States in more recent years .
Of course , nationalism has really outlived its usefulness in a country as world-oriented as ours , and its continued existence reflects one of the major culture lags of the twentieth-century United States .
In America , such self-deception has served a particularly useful purpose .
Therefore , the scholar , as he looks at our national folklore of the last 60 years , will be mindful of two facts .
Folklore is individually created art that a homogeneous group of people preserve , vary and recreate through oral transmission .
In its propagandistic and commercial haste to discover our folk heritage , the public has remained ignorant of definitions such as this .
Naturally , such scholarly facts are of little concern to the man trying to make money or fan patriotism by means of folklore .
From all this we can now see that two streams of development run through the history of twentieth-century American folklore .
For that matter , the experts themselves are a mixed breed .
The outlook for the amateur , for instance , is usually dependent on his fondness for local history or for the picturesque .
But there are also the commercial propagandists and the analysts -- one dominated by money , the other by nineteenth-century German scholarship .
The knowledge that most Americans have of folklore comes through contact with commercial propagandists and a few energetic amateurs and collectors .
If one wishes to discuss a literary figure who uses folklore in his work , the first thing he must realize is that the literary figure is probably part of this ignorant American public .
When he gets the answers to his questions he will be discouraged .
As part of the same arrangement , Torrio had , in the spirit of peace and good will , and in exchange for armed support in the April election campaign , bestowed upon O'Banion a third share in the Hawthorne Smoke Shop proceeds and a cut in the Cicero beer trade .
O'Banion was a complex and frightening man , whose bright blue eyes stared with a kind of frozen candour into others' .
O'Banion was born in poverty , the son of an immigrant Irish plasterer , in the North Side's Little Hell , close by the Sicilian quarter and Death Corner .
O'Banion's first conflict with the police came in 1909 , at seventeen , when he was committed to Bridewell Prison for three months for burglary ; ;
But whose requirements ? ?
The reception was held in a private dining room of the Webster Hotel on Lincoln Park West .
When Mayor Dever heard of the banquet he summoned Hughes for an explanation of why he had been dishonouring the police department by consorting with these felons and fixers .
In fact , O'Connor was honoured during the ceremony with the presentation of a $2500 diamond stickpin .
This dinner was the start of a new blatancy in the relationship between the gangs and the politicians , which , prior to 1924 , says Pasley , `` had been maintained with more or less stealth '' , but which henceforth was marked by these ostentatious gatherings , denounced by a clergyman as `` Belshazzar feasts '' , at which `` politicians fraternized cheek by jowl with gangsters , openly , in the big downtown hotels '' .
However , this inaugural feast did its sponsors no good whatever .
This further demonstration of O'Banion's ballooning power did not please Torrio and Capone .
A further example of the incompatible difference in personalities was when two policemen held up a Torrio beer convoy on a West Side street and demanded $300 to let it through .
But Torrio and Capone had graver cause to hate and distrust the Irishman .
When , as a diplomatic gesture of amity and in payment for the loan of gunmen in the April election , Torrio had given O'Banion a slice of Cicero , the profits from that district had been $20,000 a month .
Still more jealous bitterness was engendered by the O'Banion gang's seizure from a West Side marshalling yard of a freight-car load of Canadian whisky worth $100,000 and by one of the biggest coups of the Prohibition era -- the Sibley warehouse robbery , which became famous for the cool brazenness of the operation .
A tsunami may be started by a sea bottom slide , an earthquake or a volcanic eruption .
The ancient Greeks recorded several catastrophic inundations by huge waves .
One of the most damaging tsunami on record followed the famous Lisbon earthquake of November 1 , 1755 ; ;
In 1707 an earthquake in Japan generated waves so huge that they piled into the Inland Sea ; ;
The dimensions of these waves dwarf all our usual standards of measurement .
Tsunami are so shallow in comparison with their length that in the open ocean they are hardly detectable .
The giant waves are more dangerous on flat shores than on steep ones .
Generally the first salvo of a tsunami is a rather sharp swell , not different enough from an ordinary wave to alarm casual observers .
A tsunami is not a single wave but a series .
Among the observers of the 1946 tsunami at Hilo was Francis P. Shepard of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography , one of the world's foremost marine geologists .
Scientists and fishermen have occasionally seen strange by-products of the phenomenon .
The tsunami-warning system developed since the 1946 disaster in Hawaii relies mainly on a simple and ingenious instrument devised by Commander C. K. Green of the Coast and Geodetic Survey staff .
This center also receives prompt reports on earthquakes from four Coast Survey stations in the Pacific which are equipped with seismographs .
Since the 1946 disaster there have been 15 tsunami in the Pacific , but only one was of any consequence .
It turned out that the waves were not so high as in 1946 .
But it is plain that a warning system , however efficient , is not enough .
The key to the world of geology is change ; ;
The effects of earthquakes on civilization have been widely publicized , even overemphasized .
We have learned from earthquakes much of what we now know about the earth's interior , for they send waves through the earth which emerge with information about the materials through which they have traveled .
Earthquakes originate as far as 400 miles below the surface , but they do not occur at greater depths .
Knowledge gained from studying earthquake waves has been applied in various fields .
The following discussion of this subject has been adapted from the book Causes Of Catastrophe by L. Don Leet .
The restless earth and its interior
In Ireland's County Limerick , near the River Shannon , there is a quiet little suburb by the name of Garryowen , which means `` Garden of Owen '' .
Today a battle cry may seem an anachronism , for in the modern Army , esprit de corps has been sacrificed to organizational charts and tables .
Of all the thousands of men who have served in the 7th Cav , perhaps no one knows its spirit better than Lieutenant Colonel Melbourne C. Chandler .
Chandler had been commissioned in the Medical Service Corps and was serving as a personnel officer for the Kansas City Medical Depot when he decided that if he was going to make the Army his career , he wanted to be in the fighting part of it .
Outside of combat , he couldn't have landed in a tougher spot .
Chandler understood this and expected the worst .
But for all his erudite confidence , Sergeant Early was right out of the Garryowen mold .
It didn't take Captain Chandler long to realize that he had to carry a heavy load of tradition on his shoulders as commander of Troop Aj .
Maneuvers over , the 7th returned to garrison duty in Tokyo , Captain Chandler still with them .
It happened at the St. Patrick's Day party , a big affair for a regiment which had gone into battle for over three-quarters of a century to the strains of an Irish march .
Though there was an occasional good-natured chuckle about Marvin Goulding , the Jewish officer from Chicago , singing tearfully about the ould sod , no one really thought it was strange .
And so Mel Chandler got the spirit of Garryowen .
The troop received a new leader , Lieutenant Robert M. Carroll , fresh out of ROTC and bucking for Regular Army status .
When the Korean war began , on June 25 , 1950 , the anniversary of the day Custer had gone down fighting at the Little Big Horn and the day the regiment had assaulted the beachhead of Leyte during World War 2 , , the 7th Cavalry was not in the best fighting condition .
Just a month after the Korean War broke out , the 7th Cavalry was moving into the lines , ready for combat .
One night on the Naktong River , Mel Chandler called on that fabled esprit de corps .
The enemy had filtered across the river during the night and a full force of 1000 men , armed with Russian machine guns , attacked the position held by Chandler's men .
Another force flanked the company and took up a position on a hill to the rear .
Then Mel Chandler started up the hill .
The Koreans fell back , but regrouped at the top of the hill and pinned down the cavalrymen with a screen of fire .
Enemy reinforcements came pouring down , seeking a soft spot .
That finished the job that Captain Chandler and Lieutenant Carroll had begun .
Though Bob Carroll seemed to have had his head practically blown off by the exploding grenade , he lived .
So filled was Mel Chandler with the spirit of Garryowen that after Korea was over , he took on the job of writing the complete history of the regiment .
The battle of the Naktong River is just one example of how the battle cry and the spirit of The Fighting Seventh have paid off .
Take the case of Major Marcus A. Reno , who survived the Battle of The Little Big Horn in 1876 .
Although it was at the Battle of The Little Horn , about which more words have been written than any other battle in American history , that the 7th Cavalry first made its mark in history , the regiment was ten years old by then .
During the Civil War , Custer , who achieved a brilliant record , was made brigadier general at the age of 23 .
He finished the war as a major general , commanding a full division , and at 25 was the youngest major general in the history of the U.S. Army .
I do not mean to suggest that these assumptions are self-evident , in the sense that everyone agrees with them .
The ultimate objective of American policy is to help establish a world in which there is the largest possible measure of freedom and justice and peace and material prosperity ; ;
These conditions are unobtainable -- are not even approachable in the qualified sense I have indicated -- without the prior defeat of world Communism .
It follows that victory over Communism is the dominant , proximate goal of American policy .
The uses of power
In the recent political campaign two charges were leveled affecting the question of power , and I think we might begin by trying to put them into proper focus .
The first was that America had become -- or was in danger of becoming -- a second-rate military power .
I have often searched for a graphic way of impressing our superiority on those Americans who have doubts , and I think Mr. Jameson Campaigne has done it well in his new book American Might And Soviet Myth .
If we look at the situation this way , we can get an idea of Khrushchev's nightmarish worries -- or , at least , of the worries he might have if his enemies were disposed to exploit their advantage .
U.S. `` prestige ''
The argument was typically advanced in terms of U.S. `` prestige '' .
The evidence suggests that foreign peoples believe the United States is weaker than the Soviet Union , and is bound to fall still further behind in the years ahead .
Still , these guesses about the outcome of the struggle cannot be as important as the actual power relationship between the Soviet Union and ourselves .
Communist gains
Communist political warfare , we must remember , is waged insidiously and in deliberate stages .
The Soviets understand , moreover , that the first step in turning a country toward Communism is to turn it against the West .
To recite the particulars of recent Soviet successes is hardly reassuring .
Six years ago French Indochina , though in troubie , was in the Western camp .
Indonesia , in the early days of the Republic , leaned toward the West .
Ceylon has moved from a pro-Western orientation to a neutralism openly hostile to the West .
In the Middle East , Iraq , Syria and Egypt were , a short while ago , in the Western camp .
A short time ago all Africa was a Western preserve .
Latin America was once an area as `` safe '' for the West as Nebraska was for Nixon .
Only in Europe have our lines remained firm -- and there only on the surface .
Opportunities missed
The first rattle of the machine guns , at 7:10 in the evening , roused around me the varied voices and faces of fear .
`` Sounds exactly like last time '' .
This was my second day in Vientiane , the administrative capital of Laos , and my thoughts were none too brave .
Chinese and Indian merchants across the street were slamming their steel shutters .
The American newspaperman worried about getting to the cable office .
`` Let's play hero '' , I said .
Gunfire saves the moon
The din was successful , too , for just before the moon disappeared , the frightened toad had begun to spit it out again , which meant good luck all around .
How quaint it all seemed the next day .
I saw holes in planes at the airport and in cars in the streets .
This damage had been done in the battle of Vientiane , fought less than three months earlier when four successive governments had ruled here in three days ( December 9-11 , 1960 ) .
`` And it's all the more tragic because it's so little deserved '' , said Mr. J. J. A. Frans , a Belgian official of the United Nations Educational , Scientific , and Cultural Organization .
Practically all the people of Laos , he explained -- about two million of them -- are rice farmers , and the means and motives of modern war are as strange to them as clocks and steel plows .
Life must be kept in harmony
Harmony in Laos ? ?
To many a Frenchman -- they came 95 years ago , colonized , and stayed until Laos became independent in 1953 -- the land had been even more delightfully tranquil than Tahiti .
We were there at a moment when the situation in Laos threatened to ignite another war among the world's giants .
To find out , we traveled throughout that part of Laos still nominally controlled , in the daytime at least , by the Royal Lao Army : from Attopeu , the City of Buffalo Dung in the southeast , to Muong Sing , the City of Lions in the northwest , close to Communist China ( map , page 250 ) .
`` We '' were Bill Garrett of the National Geographic Illustrations Staff , whose three cameras and eight lenses made him look as formidable as any fighting man we met ; ;
Boun My -- the name means one who has a boun , a celebration , and is therefore lucky -- was born in Savannakhet , the Border of Paradise .
Prime minister moves fast
We were told that to the Pathet Lao , a kidnaped American was worth at least $750 , a fortune in Laos .
Although we enjoyed our rounds of the government offices in Vientiane , with officials offering tea and pleasing conversation in French , we were getting nowhere .
Prince wears ten-gallon hat
The temperature rose to 105-degrees .
In Keng Kok , the City of Silkworms , the Prime Minister bought fried chickens and fried cicadas , and two notebooks for me .
It was a spleen-crushing day .
But our two Jeep mates -- Keo Viphakone from Luang Prabang and John Cool from Beaver , Pennsylvania -- were beaming under their coatings of dust .
`` What you see are self-help projects '' , John said .
Mr. Keo agreed .
In the villages people lined up to give us flowers .
Then we were off again .
But our stumping tour of the south wasn't all misery .
Briefly we rolled over a paved road up to Pak Song , on the cool Bolovens Plateau .
Strings keep souls in place
The preparations were elaborate : flowers , candles , incense sticks , rice wine , dozens of delicacies , and pieces of white cotton string .
The candles were lighted , and we sat on split-bamboo mats among the village notables .
Next he addressed himself to our souls .
With the divinities present and our souls in place , we were wished health , happiness , and power .
As we stepped out into the sunlight , a man came up to John Cool and silently showed him his hand .
John said : `` I have some antiseptic salve with me , but it's too late for that '' .
My interviews with teen-agers confirmed this portrait of the weakening of religious and ethnic bonds .
`` I like the tradition '' , a girl said .
Another teen-ager remarked : `` Most Jews don't believe in God , but they believe in people -- in helping people '' .
This accords with the study by Maier and Spinrad .
Nevertheless , most of the teen-agers I interviewed believed in maintaining their Jewish identity and even envisioned joining a synagogue or temple .
The reason offered for clinging to the ancestral faith lacked force and authority even in the teen-agers' minds .
Intermarriage , which is generally regarded as a threat to Jewish survival , was regarded not with horror or apprehension but with a kind of mild , clinical disapproval .
A fourteen-year-old girl from the Middle West observed wryly that , in her community , religion inconveniently interfered with religious activities -- at least with the peripheral activities that many middle class Jews now regard as religious .
The older teens
The percentage of Jewish girls who attend college is almost as high as that of boys .
In upper teen Jewish life , the non-college group tends to have a sense of marginality .
The lower-middle class college student
What is noteworthy about this large group of teen-agers is that , although their attitudes hardly differentiate them from their gentile counterparts , they actually lead their lives in a vast self-enclosed Jewish cosmos with relatively little contact with the non-Jewish world .
Perhaps the Jewish students at Brooklyn College -- constituting 85 per cent of those who attend the day session -- can serve as a paradigm of the urban , lower-middle class Jewish student .
There is , to begin , an important sex difference .
Brooklyn College students have an ambivalent attitude toward their school .
For most Brooklyn College students , college is at once a perpetuation of their ethnic attachments and a breaking away from the cage of neighborhood and family .
For girls , the overprotection is far more pervasive .
The breaking away from the prison house of Brooklyn is gradual .
Brooklyn College is Marjorie Morningstar territory , as much as the Bronx or Central Park West .
The Brooklyn College student shows some striking departures from prevailing collegiate models .
Among the boys , there is very little bravado about drinking .
This should be used frequently ( but shaken before using ) .
`` Female troubles '' of various kinds do not seem to have been common on the frontier ; ;
Bruises , burns , cuts , etc. , occurred frequently on the frontier , and folk medicine gave the answers to these problems too .
To stop bleeding , cobwebs were applied to cuts and wounds .
Tetanus could be avoided by pouring warm turpentine over a wound .
While nowadays we recognize the fact that there are many causes for bleeding at the nose , not long ago a nosebleed was simply that , and treatment had little variation .
Old sores could be healed by the constant application of a wash made of equal parts vinegar and water .
Insect bites were cured in many ways .
Bedbugs were a common pest in pioneer days ; ;
To remove an insect from one's ear warm water should be inserted .
Shingles were cured by gentian , an old drug , used in combinations .
Boils have always been a source of much trouble .
There were many cures for warts .
Sore muscles were relieved by an arnica rub ; ;
For sprains and swellings , one pint of cider vinegar and half a pint of spirits of turpentine added to three well beaten eggs was said to give speedy relief .
Except for the wine waiter in a restaurant -- always an inscrutable plenipotentiary unto himself , the genii with the keys to unlock the gates of the wine world are one's dealer , and the foreign shipper or negociant who in turn supplies him .
A good negociant or shipper will not only be the man or the firm which has cornered the wines from the best vineyards , or the best parts of them ; ;
Wine waiters are something else again ; ;
Wine bought from a dealer should ideally be allowed to rest for several weeks before it is served .
Seasonal rises or drops in temperature are bad for wine : they age it prematurely .
All in all , though , there is a good deal of nonsense expended over the preparations thought necessary for ordinary wine drinking ; ;
It should not be forgotten that wines mature fastest in half-bottles , less fast in full bottles , slowly in Magnums -- and slower yet in Tregnums , double Magnums , Jeroboams , Methuselahs , and Imperiales , respectively .
The fragrance and taste of any white wine will die a lingering death when it is allowed to warm or is exposed for long to the air .
A few red wines , notably those of the Beaujolais , are better consumed at cellar temperature .
Many people use wicker cradles for old red wine , lifting the bottle carefully from the bin into the cradle and eventually to the table , without disturbing the sediment .
In France , when one wishes to entertain at a restaurant and serve truly fine old red wines , one visits the restaurant well ahead of time , chooses the wines and , with the advice of the manager and his chef , builds the menu around them .
Though there are many exceptions , which we have noted in preceding pages , white wine is as a rule best consumed between two and six years old , and red wines , nowadays , between three and ten .
Giffen replied punctually and enthusiastically : `` Rest assured that your accompanying Letter of Instructions shall be in the Letter and Spirit strictly complied with and most particularly in regard to that part of them relative to the completion of your noble and humane views '' .
Giffen lost no time in visiting the plantation .
Palfrey was determined that his portion of the slaves be converted to wage laborers during the transition period before emancipation .
In March there was a division of the slaves , and Giffen carried out his instructions as nearly as possible .
Palfrey's brothers each received lots of sixteen Negroes , and for bookkeeping purposes it was agreed that all lots were to be valued at $6,666.66 .
Despite Giffen's warning , Palfrey still had plans for freeing his slaves in Louisiana .
His brothers' anger caused Palfrey genuine concern , for he had imposed a dual mission upon himself : to free his slaves , and to keep the family from falling apart over the issue .
In view of these difficulties , Palfrey decided to go to Louisiana .
During his journey Palfrey stopped off to see two abolitionists .
Despite his apprehensions about his personal safety , Palfrey's reception in New Orleans was more than cordial .
Palfrey had already made up his mind that he would allow the men , but not the women , to choose freely whether or not to go North for freedom .
From Cambridge , Palfrey maintained a close interest in the welfare of his slaves .
On March 21 , 1845 the bark Bashaw weighed anchor at New Orleans , while on the levee Henry and William Palfrey waved farewell to their father's former chattels who must have looked back at the receding shore with mingled regret and jubilation .
Not all of Palfrey's slaves were aboard the Bashaw .
When the Negroes landed at Boston a month later they were , of course , no longer slaves .
Once the question of emancipation was settled to Palfrey's satisfaction , he faced a real problem in placing the freedmen in suitable homes as servants .
But certainly the New Frontier has brought to Washington a group more varied in background and interest .
Many of the new appointees are art collectors .
Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara , former President of the Ford Motor Company , comes from a generation different from that of Eisenhower's own first Secretary of Defense , Charles Wilson , who had been head of General Motors .
One of the President's special assistants , the Harvard dean McGeorge Bundy , was co-author with Henry L. Stimson of the latter's classic memoir , On Active Service .
The list goes on .
Two men show promise of playing prominent roles :
William Walton , a writer-turned-painter , has been a long-time friend of the President .
Walton , who served as a correspondent with General James Gavin's paratroopers during the invasion of France , combines the soul of an artist with the lingo of a tough guy .
A more official representative is the Secretary of the Interior .
Udall argues that Interior affairs should cover a great deal more than dams and wildlife preserves .
His Ideas in this respect , however , sometimes arouse critical response .
He is not likely to win this battle easily .
`` Washington '' , President Kennedy has been heard to remark ironically , `` is a city of southern efficiency and northern charm '' .
Mrs. Kennedy shows a determination to change all this .
But it soon became clear that the search for eighteenth-century furniture ( which Mrs. Kennedy feels is the proper period for the White House ) must be pursued in places other than government storage rooms .
The press releases emanating from the White House give a clue to the activity within .
Woman's place is in the home : man must attend to matters of the yard .
What to do about it now that he was President ? ?
The situation involved some political perils .
There were aesthetic problems as well as political .
Surrounded by ancient elms , the campus is spacious and beautiful .
He is by no means the country boy he might have been in the last century , down from the hills with bear grease on his hair and a zeal for book learning in his heart .
Thus , when Dartmouth's Winter Carnival -- widely recognized as the greatest , wildest , roaringest college weekend anywhere , any time -- was broadcast over a national television hookup , Prexy John Sloan Dickey appeared on the screen in rugged winter garb , topped off by a tam-o'-shanter which he confessed had been acquired from a Smith girl .
This carefree disdain for `` side '' cropped up again in the same television broadcast .
Dartmouth students enjoy other unusual diversions with equal sang-froid .
Dartmouth's favorite and most characteristic recreation is skiing .
Dartmouth students ski everywhere in winter , starting with their own front door .
Forty miles farther north is Mount Moosilauke , Dartmouth's own mountain .
Under the auspices of the Outing Club , Dartmouth also has the Mountaineering Club , which takes on tough climbs like Mount McKinley , and Bait & Bullet , whose interests are self-evident , and even sports a Woodman's Team , which competes with other New England colleges in wood sawing and chopping , canoe races , and the like .
There is much to be said for a college that , while happily attuned to the sophisticated Ivies , still gives its students a chance to get up early in the morning and drive along back roads where a glimpse of small game , deer , or even bear is not uncommon .
There is much to be said for such a college -- and Dartmouth men have been accused of saying it too often and too loudly .
Probably a lawyer once said it best for all time in the Supreme Court of the United States .
The struggle was resolved in 1819 in the Supreme Court in one of the most intriguing cases in our judicial history .
`` It is , sir , as I have said , a small college , and yet there are those who love it .
Dartmouth is today still a small college -- and still a private one , thanks to Webster's eloquence .
This is not out of keeping with its origins , probably the most humble of any in the Ivy group .
It was a hardy undertaking , and Wheelock's was indeed `` a voice crying in the wilderness '' .
The exuberance on this occasion set a standard for subsequent Dartmouth gatherings .
Future commencements were more decorous perhaps , but the number of graduates increased from the original four at a relatively slow pace .
Then in 1893 Dr. William Jewett Tucker became president and the college's great awakening began .
Dartmouth is numerically still a small college today , with approximately twenty-nine hundred undergraduates .
It is still a college only and not a university ; ;
All three schools coordinate their educational programs with that of the undergraduate college and , like the college proper , place emphasis upon a broad liberal arts course as the proper foundation for specialized study .
So Dartmouth is moving closer to the others in the Ivy group .
It has come on with a rush in more significant areas .
President Emeritus Hopkins once proposed to corral an `` aristocracy of brains '' in Hanover .
The person who left the buggy there has never been identified .
There are , of course , many weaknesses in any case against Emma .
Uncle John Vinnicum Morse was the immediate popular suspect .
Lizzie stated during the inquest that while her father and uncle were in the sitting room the afternoon before the murders , she had been disturbed by their voices and had closed her door , even though it was a very hot day .
It is evident that Lizzie did not tell everything she overheard between her father and her Uncle Morse .
The New Bedford Standard-Times has reported Knowlton as saying , long after the trial , that if he only knew what Borden said during his conversation with Morse , he would have convicted `` somebody '' .
It is known that Morse did associate with a group of itinerant horse traders who made their headquarters at Westport , a town not far from Fall River .
Morse's alibi was not as solid as it seemed .
We do know that Morse left the house before nine o'clock .
Morse testified that while he was having breakfast in the dining room , Mrs. Borden told the servant , `` Bridget , I want you to wash these windows today '' .
Morse's knowledge of what Mrs. Borden told Bridget could indicate that he had returned secretly to the house and was hidden there .
If he took an earlier streetcar than the 11:20 on his return , he could have arrived at the Borden house shortly after Mr. Borden came home .
The motive may have been the mysterious quarrel ; ;
On the other side of the ledger is the fact that he did see his niece and the woman with whom she was staying .
What did Pearson say about Bridget Sullivan as a possible suspect in his trial-book essay ? ?
`` The police soon ceased to look upon either Bridget or Mr. Morse as in possession of guilty knowledge .
Although Pearson disbelieved almost everything Lizzie said , and read a sinister purpose into almost everything she did , he happily accepted her statement about Bridget as the whole truth .
The exoneration Pearson speaks of is not an exoneration , but Lizzie's expression of her opinion , as reported in the testimony of Assistant Marshal Fleet .
Lizzie , actually , never named any suspect .
When I interviewed Kirby , who as a boy picked up pears in the Borden yard , I asked if anybody else in the household besides Lizzie and Morse had been under any suspicion at the time of the murders .
Everyone somehow manages to overlook completely the fact that , as far as we know , there were exactly two people in and about the house at the time of both murders : Lizzie Borden and Bridget Sullivan .
All the officials on the case seem to have been afflicted with a similar myopia as far as Bridget was concerned , although records in police files contain many reports of servants who have murdered their employers .
The actions of Bridget should be examined , since she was there and opportunity did exist , if only to establish her innocence .
The legend as it exists in Fall River today always includes the solemn assurance that Bridget returned to Ireland after the trial with a `` big bundle '' of cash which Lizzie gave her for keeping her mouth shut .
Bridget was born in Ireland , one of fourteen children .
I have previously described how , during the week of the murder , Bridget spent the first few hot days scrubbing and ironing clothes .
Her father , James Upton , was the Upton mentioned by Hawthorne in the famous introduction to the Scarlet Letter as one of those who came into the old custom house to do business with him as the surveyor of the port .
There is clear evidence that Lucy from childhood had an unusual mind .
Lucy Upton was graduated from the Salem High School when few colleges , only Oberlin and Elmira , were open to women ; ;
A picture of her in high school comes from a younger schoolmate , Albert S. Flint , friend of her brother Winslow , and later , like Winslow , a noted astronomer .
Many years later ( on August 3 , 1915 ) , Lucy Upton wrote Winslow's daughter soon to be graduated from Smith College : `` While I love botany which , after dabbling in for years , I studied according to the methods of that day exactly forty years ago in a summer school , it must be fascinating to take up zoology in the way you are doing .
Her study of history was persistently pursued .
Lucy's correspondence with brother Winslow during his college days was not entirely taken up with academic studies .
There was another family interest also .
Winslow Upton after graduation from Brown University and two years of graduate study , accepted a position at the Harvard Observatory .
While in Washington , D.C. , Lucy Upton held positions in the U.S. Census Office , and in the Pension Bureau .
What was called an `` accidental meeting '' with Miss Packard in Washington turned her attention to Spelman .
Her students have spoken of the exacting standards of scholarship and of manners and conduct she expected and achieved from the students ; ;
She drew on all her resources of mind and heart to help them -- to make them at home in the world ; ;
Under Miss Upton , the work of the year 1909-10 went forward without interruption .
Miss Upton and Miss Packard , as a matter of fact , had many tastes in common .
At the Fifteenth Anniversary ( 1896 ) as already quoted , Miss Upton projected with force and eloquence the Spelman of the Future as a college of first rank , with expanding and unlimited horizons .
Such were the qualities of the Acting-President of the Seminary after the death of Miss Giles .
At the meeting of the Board of Trustees , on March 3 , 1910 , Miss Upton presented the annual report of the President .
Two bequests were recorded : one of $200 under the will of Mrs. Harriet A. Copp of Los Angeles ; ;
Miss Upton told the Trustees that the death of Miss Giles was `` the sorest grief '' the Seminary had ever been called upon to bear .
Miss Mary Jane Packard , Sophia's half-sister , became ill in March , 1910 ; ;
Before coming on a visit to Spelman in 1885 , Miss Mary had been a successful teacher in Worcester , and her position there was held open for her for a considerable period .
Mary J. Packard , states a Messenger editorial , was `` efficient , pains-taking , self-effacing , loving , radiating the spirit of her Master .
In a few school districts one finds a link between school and job .
Formally organized vocational programs supported by federal funds allow high school students to gain experience in a field of work which is likely to lead to a full-time job on graduation .
Adult education courses , work-study programs of various sorts -- these are all evidence of a continuing interest of the schools in furthering educational opportunities for out-of-school youth .
In a later chapter dealing with the suburban school , I shall discuss the importance of arranging a program for the academically talented and highly gifted youth in any high school where he is found .
Vocational education
I have been using the word `` vocational '' as a layman would at first sight think it should be used .
Most of our largest cities have one or more separate vocational or technical high schools .
The separate vocational or technical high schools in the large cities must be reckoned as permanent institutions .
In my view , there should be a school which offers significant vocational programs for boys within easy reach of every family in a city .
An excellent example of a successful location of a new vocational high school is the Dunbar Vocational High School in Chicago .
The soybean seed is the most important leguminous food in the world .
Soybeans are extensively processed into a remarkable number of food products in the Orient .
Peanuts are the world's second most important legume .
Cereal grains , supplemented with soybeans or dry edible peas or beans , comprise about two-thirds or three-fourths of the diet in parts of Asia and Africa .
In western Europe and North America , where the level of economic development is higher , grains and other seed products furnish less than one-third of the food consumed .
Feeds for livestock took about one-sixth of the world's cereal crop in 1957-1958 .
More than 200 million tons of seeds and seed products are fed to livestock annually in the United States .
The efficiency with which animals convert grains and forages to meat has risen steadily in the United States since the 1930's and has paralleled the increased feeding of the cake and meal that are a byproduct when seeds are processed for oil .
The demand for food is so great in the world that little arable land can be given over to growing the nonfood crops .
Chief among the seed crops grown primarily for industrial uses are the oil-bearing seeds -- flax , castor , tung ( nuts from the China wood-oil tree ) , perilla ( from an Oriental mint ) , and oiticica ( from a Brazilian tree ) .
Oils , or liquid fats , from the seeds of flax and tung have long been the principal constituents of paints and varnishes for protecting and beautifying the surfaces of wood and metal .
The artist who paints in oil uses drying oils to carry the pigments and to protect his finished work for the ages .
Seeds of soybean , cotton , corn , sesame , and rape yield semidrying oils .
Castor oil , made from castorbeans , has gone out of style as a medicine .
Almond oil , another nondrying oil , was once used extensively in perfumery to extract flower fragrances .
Liquid fats from all these oilseeds enter into the manufacture of soaps for industry and the household and of glycerin for such industrial uses as making explosives .
Sizable amounts of soybean , coconut , and palm kernel oil -- seed oils that are produced primarily for food purposes -- also are used to make soaps , detergents , and paint resins .
Solid fats from the seeds of the mahua tree , the shea tree , and the coconut palm are used to make candles in tropical countries .
Seeds are a main source of starch for industrial and food use in many parts of the world .
Gums were extracted from quince , psyllium ( fleawort ) , flax , and locust ( carob ) seeds in ancient times .
Water-soluble gums are used in foods and drugs and in the manufacture of pulp and paper as thickeners , stabilizers , or dispersing agents .
The seeds of hard , fibrous , stony fruits , called nuts , provide highly concentrated foods , oils , and other materials of value .
The kernels of brazil nuts , cashews , coconuts , filberts , hazelnuts , hickory nuts , pecans , walnuts , and pine nuts are predominantly oily .
The world production of familiar seed nuts -- almonds , brazil nuts , filberts , and the English walnuts -- totals about 300 thousand tons annually .
Coconuts , the fruit of the coconut palm , have the largest of all known seeds and are grown in South Pacific islands as a crop for domestic and export markets .
Other nuts consumed in lesser quantity include the spicy nutmeg ; ;
A forest crop that has not been extensively cultivated is ivory nuts from the tagua palm .
The color and shape of seeds have long made them attractive for ornaments and decorations .
Since Biblical times , rosaries have been made from jobs-tears -- the seeds of an Asiatic grass .
Handmade Christmas wreaths and trees often contain a variety of seeds collected during the year .
Tradition has assigned medicinal values to seeds because of their alkaloids , aromatic oils , and highly flavored components .
Peanut and sesame oils often are used as carriers or diluents for medicines administered by injection .
Still another group of seeds ( sometimes tiny , dry , seed-bearing fruits ) provide distinctive flavors and odors to foods , although the nutrients they supply are quite negligible .
Each year millions of pounds of anise , caraway , mustard , celery , and coriander and the oils extracted from them are imported .
Single-seeded dry fruits used for flavoring include several of the carrot family , such as cumin , dill , fennel , and angelica .
Sesame seed , which comes from the tall pods of a plant grown in Egypt , Brazil , and Central America , has a toasted-nut flavor and can be used in almost any dish calling for almonds .
Beverages are made from seeds the world over .
Coffee is made from the roasted and ground seeds of the coffee tree .
Cocoa , chocolate , and cocoa butter come from the ground seeds of the cacao tree .
Several soft drinks contain extracts from kola nuts , the seed of the kola tree cultivated in the West Indies and South America .
Cereal grains have been used for centuries to prepare fermented beverages .
Beer , generally fermented from barley , is an old alcoholic beverage .
Distillers use corn , malt , wheat , grain sorghum , and rye in making beverage alcohol .
Seed crops hold a prominent place in the agricultural economy of the United States .
The farm value of seeds produced in this country for all purposes , including the cereals , is nearly 10 billion dollars a year .
The economic importance of seed crops actually is even greater , because additional returns are obtained from most of the corn , oats , barley , and sorghum -- as well as the cake and meal from the processing of flaxseed , cottonseed , and soybeans -- through conversion to poultry , meat , and dairy products .
Seeds furnish about 40 percent of the total nutrients consumed by all livestock .
Seeds are the essential raw materials for milling grain , baking , crushing oilseed , refining edible oil , brewing , distilling , and mixing feed .
More than 11 thousand business establishments in the United States were based on cereals and oilseeds in 1954 .
Cereal grains furnish about one-fourth of the total food calories in the American diet and about one-third of the total nutrients consumed by all livestock and poultry .
To hold a herd of cattle on a new range till they felt at home was called `` locatin' '' 'em .
Cattle would drift day and night in a blizzard till it was over .
The wholesale death of cattle as a result of blizzards , and sometimes droughts , over a wide range of territory was called a `` die-up '' .
Cattle brought into a range from a distance were called `` immigrants '' .
In the spring when penned cattle were turned out to grass , this was spoken of as `` turn-out time '' , or `` put to grass '' .
A cow rose from the ground rear end first .
When a cowboy spoke of `` dustin' '' a cow , he meant that he throwed dust into her eyes .
The Injun's name for beef was `` wohaw '' , and many of the old frontiersmen adopted it from their association with the Injun on the trails .
`` Tailin' '' was the throwin' of an animal by the tail in lieu of a rope .
`` Bull tailin' '' was a game once pop'lar with the Mexican cowboys of Texas .
Colors of cattle came in for their special names .
Countin' each grazin' bunch of cattle where it was found on the range and driftin' it back so that it didn't mix with the uncounted cattle was called a `` range count '' .
A `` book count '' was the sellin' of cattle by the books , commonly resorted to in the early days , sometimes much to the profit of the seller .
When a cowhand said that a man had `` good cow sense '' , he meant to pay 'im a high compliment .
21 swingin' a wide loop
It was John who found the lion tracks .
He stifled the Comanche yell and let John lead him straight toward the nearby black volcanic mountain .
Kearton and Ulyate had started the day together while Jones followed the dogs , and Means and Loveless had taken another route , and now , with the discovery of the fresh trail still unknown to him , Ulyate reined in , in the shadow of the Reef and pointed .
`` That's the Colonel '' , he said , `` But I can't see the dogs '' .
As they watched , Jones rode straight for the Reef .
Kearton got off and tore up some dry grass that grew in cracks between the rocks and piled it in a heap and wanted to make the smoke signal that would bring Loveless and Means and the rest of the party .
`` Not yet '' , cautioned Ulyate .
Jones came toward them fast , now , along the southern toe of the Reef , and the dogs could be heard plainly , Old John with his Grand Canyon voice outstanding above the others .
`` Light it '' ! !
`` That will fetch the gang and tell the Colonel where we are '' .
Two quick shots sounded .
Kearton and Ulyate looked at each other and began to gallop toward the sound .
Ulyate drew back with a start , and put finger to lips , almost afraid to move or whisper lest it set her off , `` The dogs have got her bayed .
Jones had been about a hundred and fifty feet from her when he first broke through to the top of the Reef .
Intuition told him , however , that she was tired and winded from the run up the Reef and would not charge , yet .
Jones then recoiled his rope and threw again , this time hitting her on the back but failing to encircle her .
From the lioness' point of view , this strange creature on the back of another creature , lashing out with its long thin paw , very likely appeared as something she could not at first cope with .
At this moment , Loveless and Means arrived , crashing through the undergrowth with their horses , and distracted her , and she ran off a short distance and jumped into a crevice between two rocks .
`` We've got to get her out of there '' ! !
For such an emergency he had included Fourth-of-July cannon crackers as part of their equipment .
`` Ain't she a beauty , though '' ? ?
`` Don't you go a step nearer her than I do '' , Jones warned , `` and if you do , go at a run so you'll have momentum '' ! !
For two hours they drove her from one strong point to another along the side of the Reef , trying to maneuver her onto the plain where they could get a good throw .
`` I'll get a pole '' , Jones said finally , `` and I'll poke a noose over her head '' ! !
At this moment she was crouched in a cave-like aperture halfway down the Reef .
`` Just the same we'll try it '' .
But without waiting for them to try it , she scattered the dogs and shot down the Reef and out across the plain .
John led the chase after her and the other dogs strung out behind , many of them trailing blood .
She took refuge on a tongue of land extending into a gully , crouched at the base of a thorn tree , and waited for them to come up .
Means tried her first .
Means edged closer .
She charged .
The lioness quickly changed front , when she saw she couldn't catch Means , and made for Jones .
When Jones too drew away , she returned to a thorn bush in the neck of land running into the gully , crouched low and waited as before .
From behind her Means shot forward at a run .
The missionary obligation to proclaim the gospel to all the world was once left to zealous individuals and voluntary societies .
The most serious weakness of the ecumenical movement today is that it is generally regarded as the responsibility of a few national leaders in each denomination and a few interdenominational executives .
As long as this point of view prevails , the ecumenical movement will be lame and halt .
The ecumenical congregation
It has become almost trite to say that the ecumenical movement must be `` carried down to the grass roots '' .
The basic unit in the church , of whatever denominational polity , is always the congregation .
How far the fellowship in most local churches falls below what the New Testament means by koinonia ! !
Whenever a congregation really sees itself as a unit in the universal Church , in vital relation with the whole Body of Christ and participating in His mission to the world , a necessary foundation-stone of the ecumenical movement has been laid .
Of course , the perspective of those who are dealing directly with the world-wide problems of the People of God will always be different from the perspective of those who are dealing with the nearby problems of particular persons in a particular place .
Divergent perspectives
As things stand now , the local and the ecumenical tend to compete with each other .
On the other hand , many a pastor is so absorbed in ministering to the intimate , personal needs of individuals in his congregation that he does little or nothing to lead them into a sense of social responsibility and world mission .
The gap between the ecumenical perspective and the parish perspective appears most starkly in a church in any of our comfortable suburbs .
But what is this church doing to help its members understand their roles as Christians in the world ? ?
To put it bluntly , many a local church is giving its members only what they consciously want .
There is a humorous but revealing story about a rancher who owned a large slice of Texas and who wanted to have on it everything that was necessary for a completely pleasant community .
Local embodiment of the whole
Yet the truth , according to the New Testament , is that every local church has its existence only by being the embodiment of the whole church in that particular place .
Yet a crowd came out to see some fresh kids from the city try to match the boys from the neighboring farms ; ;
This was a bitterly fought game , carrying almost as much grudge as a fist fight , with no friendliness exhibited between the teams except the formal politeness that accompanied the setting forth of ground rules and agreements on balls that went into the crowd .
At one point in the game when the skinny old man in suspenders who was acting as umpire got in the way of a thrown ball and took it painfully in the kidneys , he lay there unattended while players and spectators wrangled over whether the ball was `` dead '' or the base runners were free to score .
This was typical of such games , which were earnestly played to win and practically never wound up in an expression of good fellowship .
Baseball was surely the national game in those days , even though professional baseball may have been merely a business .
Young men in school could look forward to playing ball for money in a dozen different places , even if they failed to make the major leagues .
Babe Ruth , of course , was everyone's hero , and everyone knew him , even though relatively few ever saw him play ball .
Other hitters bloomed with more or less vigor in the news and a few even dared to dream of matching Ruth , who was still called Jidge by all his friends , or Leo or Two-Head by those who dared to taunt him ( Leo was the name of the ball player he liked the least ) and who called most of the world `` Kid '' .
A few professional baseball players cultivated eccentricities , with the encouragement of the press , so that they might see their names in big black print , along with Daddy Browning's , Al Capone's , Earl Sande's , and the Prince of Wales' .
In his minor way Charles Arthur Shires was perhaps more typical of his era than Ruth was , for he was but one of many young men who laid waste their talents in these Scott Fitzgerald days for the sake of earning space in the newspapers .
But the twenties were not all insanity and a striving after recognition .
The greatest team of this period was unquestionably the New York Yankees , bought by brewery millions and made into a ball club by men named Ed Barrow and Miller Huggins .
The ordinary man and woman , however , saw little of the great professional games of those Golden Days , or of any other sporting event for that matter .
In some cities games were broadcast throughout the week and then on weekends the announcer was silenced , and fans must needs drive to the city from all the broadcast area to discover how their heroes were faring .
While women had always attended ball games in small numbers ( it was the part of a `` dead game sport '' in the early years of the twentieth century to be taken out to the ball park and to root , root , root for the home team ) , they had often sat in patient martyrdom , unable even to read the scoreboard , which sometimes seemed to indicate that one team led another by a score of three hundred and eighty to one hundred and fifty-one .
Radio , however , so increased the interest of women in the game that it was hardly necessary even to have `` Ladies' Days '' any longer to enable men to get to the ball park without interference at home .
The radio broadcasts themselves were often so patiently informative , despite the baseball jargon , that girls and women could begin to store up in their minds the same sort of random and meaningless statistics that small boys had long learned better than they ever did their lessons in school .
This conclusion is dependent on the assumption that traditional sex mores will continue to sanction both premarital chastity as the `` ideal '' , and the double standard holding females primarily responsible for preserving the ideal .
Our discussion of this involves using Erik Erikson's schema of `` identity vs. identity diffusion '' as a conceptual tool in superimposing a few common denominators onto the diverse personality and family configurations of the unwed mothers from whose case histories we quoted earlier .
Hypothesizing a series of developmental stages that begin in the individual's infancy and end in his old age , Erikson has indicated that the adolescent is faced with a series of identity crises .
The adolescent experiences identity crises in terms of time perspective vs. time diffusion .
These polar extremes in time diffusion were indicated in some of the comments by unwed mothers reported in earlier chapters .
However , as Erickson has noted , the individual's failure to develop preliminary identities during infancy and childhood need not be irreversibly deterministic with respect to a given area of identity diffusion in his ( or her ) adolescence .
The adolescent experiences two closely related crises : self-certainty vs. an identity consciousness ; ;
However , if the child has been constantly surrounded , during nursery and early school age , by peer groups ; ;
The attitudes of some unwed mothers quoted in Chapter 2 , , revealed both considerable preoccupation with being accepted by others and a marked absence of self-certainty .
Another identity crisis confronting the adolescent involves anticipation of achievement vs. work-paralysis .
If she has not had such experiences , the female's normal adolescent degree of indecision will be compounded .
The comments made by some unwed mothers ( quoted in Chapter 2 ) ) reflect this paralysis of workmanship .
Childhood experiences in learning work and self-discipline habits within a context of developing autonomy and initiative have considerable significance for the prevention of illegitimacy .
The adolescent also faces the identity crisis that Erikson has termed ideological polarization vs. diffusion of ideals .
Adolescents have a much-discussed tendency to polarize ideas and values , to perceive things as `` either-or '' , black or white -- nuances of meaning are relatively unimportant .
The positive development , during adolescence , of this capacity to think and to feel strongly and with increasing independence , and to identify overtly either with or against given ideas , values , and practices , depends to a considerable degree on both previous and present opportunities for developing autonomy , initiative , and self-certainty .
A pronounced ideological diffusion -- i.e. , inability to identify independently with given ideas and value systems -- is reflected in many ways .
The case histories provide some interesting illustrations of ideological diffusion , embodied in the unwed mother's inability to identify independently a given value system or behavior pattern , , and her subsequent disinclination to assume any individual responsibility for her sexual behavior .
In the adult world , there are a number of rather general and diffuse sources of ideological diffusion that further compound the adolescent's search for meaning during this particular identity crisis .
In the final accounting , these would have augmented the bill for both sides .
Yet the huge amount of money consumed by the Selden litigation , which many regarded as wasteful , indirectly contributed to constructive changes in legal procedure .
In a long and angry footnote to his opinion , Judge Hough had lent the weight of judicial condemnation to such criticism .
The fundamental difficulty of which the Selden case was `` a striking ( though not singular ) example '' , concluded Hough , `` will remain as long as testimony is taken without any authoritative judicial officer present , and responsible for the maintenance of discipline , and the reception or exclusion of testimony '' .
Not least among the members of the patent bar who echoed this powerful indictment were those who had participated in the Selden suit .
Parker , who agreed with much of this criticism , did not conceal his dissatisfaction with procedural defects .
In a private communication written in 1911 , Parker had been more to the point .
Parker listed the remedies he deemed essential for reducing the cost and mass of testimony .
In the end Hough's acidulous protest , which Parker called the `` now somewhat famous note on this ' Selden ' case '' , did not go unheeded .
3
From the earliest days of the motor car industry , before the A.L.A.M. was established , patent infringement loomed as a serious and vexing problem .
In this tangle of conflicting claims , the patent-sharing scheme adopted by the A.L.A.M. at its founding proved to be the best device for avoiding or mitigating the burdens of incessant litigation .
For those affiliated with it , the A.L.A.M. pool was a haven from the infringement actions involving detail patents that beset the industry with mounting intensity after 1900 .
Occasionally new enterprise was discouraged by the almost certain prospect of legal complications .
By that time it was commonly agreed that patent warfare was sapping constructive achievement and blocking the free exchange of technical information .
After the demise of the A.L.A.M. , the time was propitious for establishing such a pool .
With the other members of the patents committee -- Wilfred C. Leland , Howard E. Coffin , Windsor T. White , and W. H. Vandervoort -- Hanch drafted a cross-licensing agreement whose essential feature of royalty-free licensing was his own contribution .
Drawn up in 1914 , the cross-licensing agreement became effective in 1915 .
A little farther along the road you come to the Church of Santa Sabina , called the `` Pearl of the Aventine '' .
Retrace your steps a few yards on the Via Di Santa Sabina and turn right on the Via Di S. Alessio , a street lined with stately homes .
The renaissance city
Start on the Via D. Teatro Di Marcello at the foot of the Capitoline Hill .
Wander past the three superb Columns of Apollo by the arches of the theatre .
Turn to the right along a narrow street to the tiny Piazza Campitelli , then proceed along the Via Dei Funari to the Piazza Mattei .
Opposite is the Palazzo Mattei , one of Rome's oldest palaces , now the headquarters of the Italo-American Association .
Keep straight ahead on the Via Falegnami , cross the wide Via Arenula , and you will come to the Piazza B. Cairoli , where you should look in at the Church of San Carlo Ai Catinari to see the frescoes on the ceiling .
Before you enter the palazzo , note Francesco Borromini's facade .
By tipping the porter , you can see in the courtyard Borromini's unusual and fascinating trick in perspective .
From the Palazzo Spada you continue another block along the Via Capo Di Ferro and Vicolo De Venti to the imposing Palazzo Farnese , begun in 1514 and considered by many to be the finest palace of all .
Directly in front of the palace along the Via D. Baullari you will come to the Campo Di Fiori , the famous site of executions during the turbulent days of Renaissance Rome .
At this point you cross the wide Corso Vittorio Emanuele 2 , , walk along the Corso Del Rinascimento a couple of hundred yards , then turn left on the Via Dei Canestrani to enter the splendid Piazza Navona , one of the truly glorious sights in Rome .
Your first impression of this elongated square with its three elegant fountains , its two churches that almost face each other , and its russet-colored buildings , is a sense of restful spaciousness -- particularly welcome after wandering around the narrow and dark streets that you have followed since starting this walk .
The site of the oblong piazza is Domitian's ancient stadium , which was probably used for horse and chariot races .
Giovanni Bernini's `` Fountain of the Rivers '' , in the center of the piazza , is built around a Roman obelisk from the Circus of Maxentius which rests on grottoes and rocks , with four huge figures , one at each corner , denoting four great rivers from different continents -- the Danube , the Ganges , the Nile , and the Plate .
In the Piazza Navona there are many delightful cafes where you can sit , have a drink or lunch , and watch the fountains in the square .
Take the Via Di S. Agnese in Agone , next to the church and opposite the center of the square , then turn right after about two hundred yards to reach the beautiful Church of Santa Maria Della Pace .
Now return to the Piazza Navona and leave it on the opposite side by the Corsia Agonale ; ;
This circular edifice , constructed by Agrippa in B.C. 27 , was rebuilt in its present shape by the Emperor Hadrian .
The Pantheon's interior , still in its original form , is truly majestic and an architectural triumph .
As you leave the Pantheon , take the narrow street to the right , the Via Del Seminario , a block to Sant' Ignazio , one of the most splendid baroque churches in the city .
You are now at the Corso , though narrow , one of Rome's busiest streets .
If you have taken this stroll in the morning , and you have the time and inclination , walk to the right along the crowded Corso for half a dozen blocks to visit the fine private collection of paintings -- mainly of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries -- in the Palazzo Doria ( open Sunday , Tuesday , and Thursday , 10:00 to 1:00 ) .
Otherwise , cross over the Corso and walk a block or so to the left .
Rare , indeed , is the Harlem citizen , from the most circumspect church member to the most shiftless adolescent , who does not have a long tale to tell of police incompetence , injustice , or brutality .
It is hard , on the other hand , to blame the policeman , blank , good-natured , thoughtless , and insuperably innocent , for being such a perfect representative of the people he serves .
Negroes want to be treated like men : a perfectly straightforward statement , containing only seven words .
Northerners indulge in an extremely dangerous luxury .
As far as the color problem is concerned , there is but one great difference between the Southern white and the Northerner : the Southerner remembers , historically and in his own psyche , a kind of Eden in which he loved black people and they loved him .
None of this is true for the Northerner .
It is a terrible , an inexorable , law that one cannot deny the humanity of another without diminishing one's own : in the face of one's victim , one sees oneself .
4 .
the fact that American Negroes rioted in the U.N. while Adlai Stevenson was addressing the Assembly shocked and baffled most white Americans .
However , the chaos on my desk prevented my being in the U.N. gallery .
According , then , to what I take to be the prevailing view , these rioters were merely a handful of irresponsible , Stalinist-corrupted provocateurs .
I find this view amazing .
Now , I do not doubt that , among the people at the U.N. that day , there were Stalinist and professional revolutionists acting out of the most cynical motives .
Color was delayed until 1935 , the wide screen until the early fifties .
Movement itself was the chief and often the only attraction of the primitive movies of the nineties .
In the field of entertainment there is no spur to financial daring so effective as audience boredom , and the first decade of the new device was not over before audiences began staying away in large numbers from the simple-minded , one-minute shows .
Narrative time and film time
It was Porter , however , who produced the very first movie whose name has lived on through the half century of film history that has since ensued .
The material of the Porter film is simplicity itself ; ;
All this is simple enough , but in telling the story Porter did two important things that had not been done before .
He did more than that .
This is what Porter did .
The `` chase '' as a standard film device probably dates from The Great Train Robbery , and there is a reason for the continued popularity of the device .
The creator of the art of the film : D.W. Griffith
Not that there had not been attempts , mostly European , to do exactly that .
In general , religious interest seems to exist in all parts of the metropolis ; ;
The breakdown of social homogeneity in inner city areas and the spread of inner city blight account for the decline of central city churches .
The key to Protestant development , therefore , is economic integration of the nucleus of the congregation .
The vulnerability of Protestant congregations to social differences has often been attributed to the `` folksy spirit '' of Protestant religious life ; ;
Mission as co-optation
Evangelism and congregational outreach have not been carefully studied in the churches ; ;
Missionary outreach by friendly contact looks somewhat different when one reflects on what is known about friendly contact in metropolitan neighborhoods ; ;
The transmutation of mission to co-optation is further indicated by the insignificance of educational activities , worship , preaching , and publicity in reaching new members .
It was observed in the introductory chapter that metropolitan life had split into two trends -- expanding interdependence on an impersonal basis and growing exclusiveness in local communal groupings .
Since American life is committed above all to productivity and a higher standard of economic life , the countervailing forces of residential and religious exclusiveness have fought a desperate , rearguard action against the expanding interdependence of the metropolis .
This interpretation of the role of residence in the economy of middle-class culture could lead to various projections for the churches .
Attention will be given in the next chapter to the style of association in the denominational churches ; ;
The perplexing question still remains as to why the middle classes turn to the churches as a vehicle of social identity when their clubs and charities should fill the same need .
With capital largely squandered , there seemed to them no other course to pursue .
The directors sold directly to concessionaires , who had to make their profits above the high prices asked by the company .
In accord with its penurious policy , the company failed to furnish presents to hold the loyalty of the principal Indians .
In 1721 the King sent three commissioners to Louisiana with full powers to do all that was necessary to protect the colony .
West of the Mobile district was the lower Mississippi district , of which New Orleans was headquarters .
On the middle Mississippi a principal post was to be located near the mouth of the Arkansas .
Each of the five principal posts was to have a director , responsible to a director-general at New Orleans .
Only two principal storehouses were actually established -- one at Mobile , the other at New Orleans .
The power that Bienville exercised during his first administration cannot be determined .
During the first administration of Bienville , the peltry trade of the Mobile district was a lucrative source of revenue .
During his first administration , Bienville succeeded in keeping Carolina traders out of the Alabama country and the Choctaw country .
The Chickasaws were the principal source of trouble in the Mobile district .
Bienville realized that if the French were to hold the southeastern tribes against the enticements of British goods , French traders must be able to offer a supply as abundant as the Carolinians and at reasonable prices .
The insistence of Bienville upon giving liberal prices to the Indians , in order to drive back the Carolina traders , was probably a factor that led to his recall in 1724 .
The company was impressed with some ideas of the danger from Carolina , and when Perier came over as governor in 1727 , he was given special instructions regarding the trade of the Mobile district .
Perier's efforts , however , were on the whole ineffective in winning back the tribes of the Mobile district , and he decided to send troops into the troubled country .
No help came from the crown , and Perier , in desperation , gave a monopoly of the Indian trade in the district to D'Artaguette .
With the loss of the Mobile trade , which ended all profits from Louisiana , the Natchez Indians revolted .
Company rule in Louisiana left the colony without fortifications , arms , munitions , or supplies .
Perier and Salmon , the intendant , wished either to entrust the trade to an association of merchants or to have the crown furnish goods on credit to individuals who would repay their debts with pelts .
In order to compete with English traders , Bienville radically changed the price schedule .
They would not be pleased to have it published back home that they planned a frolic in Paris or Hong Kong at the Treasury's expense .
The reason for this bears explaining for those who may wonder why State spends so much of its diplomatic energy on Congress when the Russians are so available .
With all these agencies , the congressman must constantly check the political wind and trim his sails accordingly .
In many sections he may even reap applause from press and public for giving it a good lesson .
The result is that the State Department's perpetual position before Congress is the resigned pose of the whipping boy who expects to be kicked whenever the master has had a dyspeptic outing with his wife .
The Department expects and receives no thanks from Congress for its discretion .
But come the next session of Congress , State can expect only that its summer guest will bite its hand when it goes to the Capitol asking money for diplomatic entertaining expenses abroad or for living expenses for its diplomats .
In the matter of money State's most unrelenting watchdog during the Eisenhower years was Representative John J. Rooney , of Brooklyn , who controlled the purse for diplomatic administrative expenses .
`` The trouble , '' explained Loy Henderson , then Deputy Undersecretary for Administration , `` is that when we get into an argument with him about this thing , it always turns out that Rooney knows more about our budget than we do '' .
One year the Department collected a file of case histories to document its argument that men in the field were paying the government's entertainment bills out of personal income .
The Department's constant fight with the House for money is a polite minuet compared with its periodic bloody engagements with the Senate .
With its power to investigate , the Senate can paralyze the Secretary by keeping him in a state of perpetual testimony before committees , as it did with Dean Acheson .
An internal police operation managed by Scott McLeod , a former F.B.I. man installed as security officer upon congressional insistence , was part of the vengeance .
In view of Eisenhower's reluctance to concede that anything was amiss in the Terror , it is doubtful that heroic intervention by Dulles could have produced anything but disaster for him and the country's foreign policy .
During this dark chapter in State Department history , men who had offered foreign-policy ideas later proven wrong by events filled the tumbrels sent up to Capitol Hill .
This , in turn , brought a new fashion in senatorial criticism as the Democrats took control .
An equally tenable thesis is that the dearth of new thought was created by the Senate's own penchant for crucifying anyone whose ideas seem unorthodox to the next generation .
Getting along with foreigners
Here is the world of the chauffeured limousine and the gossip reporter , of caviar on stale crackers and the warm martini , of the poseur , the spy , the party crasher , and the patriot , of the rented tails , the double cross , and the tired Lothario .
Into its chanceries each day pour reports from ministries around the earth and an endless stream of home-office instructions on how to handle Uncle Sam in an infinite variety of contingencies .
Each has its peculiar style .
Where his predecessors had glowered , Menshikov smiled .
`` Smilin' Mike '' was the sobriquet Washington gave him .
The Menshikov interlude ended as larks with the Russians usually end .
The most inscrutable embassies are the Arabs' , and the most inscrutable of the Arabs are the Saudi Arabians .
The size of Saud's family was still being debated when the King appeared for his first meeting with Eisenhower .
`` Twenty-one '' , replied the sheik .
And how many of these were sons ? ?
`` Twenty-five '' , the sheik replied .
`` Do you mean to tell us '' , a reporter asked , `` that the King has twenty-one children , twenty-five of whom are sons '' ? ?
The sheik smiled and murmured : `` That is precisely correct '' .
The Egyptians are noted for elusiveness of language .
The deep water is used by many people , but it is always clean , for the washing is done outside .
Of course , most toilets are Eastern style -- at floor level -- but even when they are raised to chair height , they are actually outside toilets -- inside .
The next day I visited International Christian College which has developed since the war under the leadership of people who were interned and who know Japan well .
In the afternoon Miss Hosaka and her mother invited me to go with them and young Mrs. Kodama to see the famous Spring dances of the Geisha dancers .
Because Don was leaving the next day , I spent the evening with him at Asia Center .
There is a great deal of thought being given to the question of moral education in the schools .
The government has recognized the dilemma and is beginning to devise some moral education for the schools -- but the teachers often have no firm conviction and are confused .
In the evening the former Oregon State science teachers met for dinner at the New Tokyo Restaurant where I had my first raw fish and found it good .
Kyoto
I think I would have been much disappointed in Japan if I had not seen Kyoto , Nara , and Hiroshima .
After a supper of unagi ( rice with eel -- eel which is raised in an ice-cold pond at the foot of Mt. Fuji ) , I returned to my beautiful room to sleep as hard as possible to be ready for another busy day .
We had tea at Mr. Washizu's home where I learned that he , too , comes from a very wealthy family .
Nara , Osaka , and Hiroshima
In the evening both of the men went with me on the train 30 miles to Osaka to put me on the train for Hiroshima .
My train arrived in Hiroshima at the awful hour of 4:45 a.m. .
I know now why the students insisted that I go to Hiroshima even when I told them I didn't want to .
The teachers of Mr. Uno's school gave me a small gift to thank me for coming .
Tokyo
It was thrilling to see the effect of an American-trained teacher on Japanese students in a class in Home Planning .
At this Women's University we find a monument to a courageous family who believed that Japanese women also should be educated .
Masu is also teaching in a municipally-sponsored school for Japanese widows in Tokyo .
University of Tokyo
The achievement of the desegregation of certain lunch counters not only by wise action by local community leaders but by voluntary action following consultation between Attorney General Rogers and the heads of certain national chain stores should , of course , be applauded .
In any case , anyone who fails to make significant distinction between primary and secondary applications of economic pressure would in principle already have justified that use of economic boycott as a means which broke out a few years ago or was skillfully organized by White Citizens' Councils in the entire state of Mississippi against every local Philco dealer in that state , in protest against a Philco-sponsored program over a national TV network on which was presented a drama showing , it seemed , a `` high yellow gal '' smooching with a white man .
The need that we not give unqualified approval to any but a limited use of economic pressure directed against the actual doers of injustice is clear also in light of the fact that White Citizens' Councils seem resolved to maintain segregation mainly by the use of these same means and not ordinarily by physical violence .
It is clear that non-violent resistance is a mode of action in need of justification and limitation in Christian morality , like any other form of resistance .
A trial of strength , however , is made quite inevitable by virtue of the fact that anyone engaging in non-violent resistance will be convinced that his action is based on sounder values than those of his opponent ; ;
Among Christian groups , the Mennonites have commonly been aware more than others of the fact that the nature of divine charity raises decisively the question of the Christian use of all forms of pressure .
We may now take up for consideration a hard case which seems to require either no action employing economic pressure or else action that would seem to violate the principles set forth above .
Northern liberals are the chief supporters of civil rights and of integration .
The nature of the opposition between liberals and Bourbons is too little understood in the North .
I write about Northern liberals from considerable personal experience .
I take this to mean that the intelligent -- and therefore necessarily cynical ? ?
The American liberal may , in the world of to-day , have a strong case ; ;
I am concerned here , however , with the Northern liberal's attitude toward the South .
I do not think that my experience would be typical for Southerners living in the North .
Accounts have been published of Northern liberals in the South up against segregationist prejudice , especially in state-supported universities where pressure may be strong to uphold the majority view .
There are of course many Souths ; ;
Belief in the traditional way of life persists much more in the older states than in the new ones .
The long-settled areas of states like Virginia and South Carolina developed the ante-bellum culture to its richest flowering , and there the memory is more precious , and the consciousness of loss the greater .
Among Bourbons the racial issue may have less to do with their remaining unreconstructed than other factors .
It is hard to see how the situation could be otherwise .
If the circumstances are faced frankly it is not reasonable to expect this to be true .
The two main charges levelled against the Bourbons by liberals is that they are racists and social reactionaries .
The South's antipathy to Northern civilization includes such charges as poor manners , harsh accents , lack of appreciation of the arts of living like gastronomy and the use of leisure .
In the past , the duties of the state , as Sir Henry Maine noted long ago , were only two in number : internal order and external security .
Beyond the two basic tasks mentioned above , no attention was paid by statesman or scholar to an idea of state responsibility , either internally or externally .
However , in recent decades , for what doubtless are multiple reasons , an unannounced but nonetheless readily observable shift has occurred in both facets of national activity .
A little more than twenty years ago the American people turned an important corner .
The general acceptance of the idea of governmental ( i.e. , societal ) responsibility for the economic well-being of the American people is surely one of the two most significant watersheds in American constitutional history .
Internal national responsibility , now a truism , need not be documented .
Internal national responsibility is a societal response to the impact of the Industrial Revolution .
Whether a concept analogous to the principle of internal responsibility operates in a nation's external relations is less obvious and more difficult to establish .
Reference to two other concepts -- nationalism and sovereignty -- may help to reveal the contours of the new principle .
It is one of the ironic quirks of history that the viability and usefulness of nationalism and the territorial state are rapidly dissipating at precisely the time that the nation-state attained its highest number ( approximately 100 ) .
Complementing the political principle of nationalism is the legal principle of sovereignty .
The nation-state , then , exemplifies the principle of nationalism and exercises sovereignty : supreme power over domestic affairs and independence from outside control .
The short answer to those questions is `` yes '' .
Can thermonuclear war be set off by accident ? ?
I have just asked these questions in the Pentagon , in the White House , in offices of key scientists across the country and aboard the submarines that prowl for months underwater , with neat rows of green launch tubes which contain Polaris missiles and which are affectionately known as `` Sherwood Forest '' .
To the men in the instrument-jammed bomber cockpits , submarine compartments and the antiseptic , windowless rooms that would be the foxholes of tomorrow's impersonal intercontinental wars , the questions seem farfetched .
In the command centers there are special clocks ready to tick off the minutes elapsed since `` E hour '' .
Among the policy makers , generals , physicists , psychologists and others charged with controlling the actions of the button pushers and their `` hardware '' , the answers to my questions varied partly according to a man's flair for what the professionals in this field call `` scenarios '' .
Already accidental war is a silent guest at the discussions within the Kennedy Administration about the urgency of disarmament and nearly all other questions of national security .
Meanwhile , the experts speak of wars triggered by `` false pre-emption '' , `` escalation '' , `` unauthorized behavior '' and other terms that will be discussed in this report .
These men are not callous .
The first systematic thinking about this Pandora's box within Pandora's boxes was done four years ago by Fred Ikle , a frail , meek-mannered Swiss-born sociologist .
In recent weeks , as a result of a sweeping defense policy reappraisal by the Kennedy Administration , basic United States strategy has been modified -- and large new sums allocated -- to meet the accidental-war danger and to reduce it as quickly as possible .
The chain starts at BMEWS ( Ballistic Missile Early Warning System ) in Thule , Greenland .
Telephones , Teletypes , several kinds of radio systems and , in some cases , television , link all vital points .
The same principle of `` redundancy '' applies to all communications on these special networks .
Only the President is permitted to authorize the use of nuclear weapons .
Nobody can be absolutely certain of the answers .
Even the President cannot pick up his telephone and give a `` go '' order .
If communications work , his decision would be instantly known in all command posts that would originate the actual go order .
Let us look in on one of these nerve centers -- SAC at Omaha -- and see what must still happen before a wing of B-52 bombers could drop their Aj .
In a word , plenty .
Wisman , who has had the chief controller's job for four years , calls the signals for a team operating three rows of dull-gray consoles studded with lights , switches and buttons .
He need only pick up one of the two red telephone receivers at his extreme left , right next to the big red button marked alert .
But Wisman , too , does not know the go code .
Now we must become vague , for we are approaching one of the nation's most guarded secrets .
But even the contents of Wisman's box cannot start a war .
I asked Wisman what would happen if he broke out the go codes and tried to start transmitting one .
Now let us imagine a wing of B-52's , on alert near their `` positive control ( or fail-safe ) points '' , the spots on the map , many miles from Soviet territory , beyond which they are forbidden to fly without specific orders to proceed to their targets .
After that , it requires several minutes of concentrated work , including six separate and deliberate actions by a minimum of three men sitting at three separate stations in a bomber , each with another man beside him to help , for an armed bomb to be released .
Suddenly , however , their posture changed and the game ended .
They went after the squall as mercilessly as a wolf pack after an abandoned cow .
They ran for three hours .
With a lordly and generous gesture , the discoverer stood up and beckoned to the closest of his fellows .
The aborigine lives on the cruelest land I have ever seen .
The malignancy of such a landscape has been beautifully described by the Australian Charles Bean .
The countryside looked like a beautiful open park with gentle slopes and soft gray tree-clumps .
The white men died .
The aborigine is not deceived ; ;
The family at the boulder
I persuaded an Australian friend who had lived `` outback '' for years to take me to see some aborigines living in the bush .
`` Do you always navigate like this '' ? ?
`` Damned right '' , he said .
He was right .
There was also a dog , a dingo dog .
`` The buggers love shade '' , the rancher said .
We drove close to the boulder , stopped the Land Rover , and walked over toward the family .
The man was leaning against the rock .
I turned to look at the lubra .
The two children , both boys , wandered around the Australian and me for a few moments and then returned to their work .
The odor here was more powerful than that which surrounded the town aborigines .
Their skin was covered with a thin coating of sweat and dirt which had almost the consistency of a second skin .
`` That smell is something , eh , mate '' ? ?
`` Here , Idje , you fella like tabac '' ? ?
It was a fortunate time in which to build , for the seventeenth century was a great period in Persian art .
In the early eighteenth century this fantastic city , then the size of London , started to decline .
Those who actually get there find that it isn't spooky at all but as brilliant as a tile in sunlight .
However , just as all the buildings have not fallen and flowed back to their original mud , so the values which wanted them and saw that they were built have not all disappeared .
The promenade , for example , continues to take place on the Chahar Bagh , a mile-long garden of plane and poplar trees that now serves as the city's principal street .
But more important , and the thing which the casual traveler and the blind sojourner often do not see , is that these places and activities are often the settings in which Persians exercise their extraordinary aesthetic sensibilities .
I should like , by the way , to make it clear that I am not using the word `` Persians '' carelessly .
The natural world then , plus poetry and some kinds of art , receives from the most ordinary of Persians a great deal of attention .
Nowhere in Isfahan is this rich aesthetic life of the Persians shown so well as during the promenade at the Khaju bridge .
The top story contains more than thirty alcoves separated from each other by spandrels of blue and yellow tile .
Below , twenty vaults tunnel through the understructure of the bridge .
On the downstream , or `` pavilion '' , side these vaults give out onto terraces twice as wide as the bridge itself .
On spring and summer evenings people leave their shops and houses and walk up through the lanes of the city to the bridge .
Here in an evening Persians enjoy many of the things which are important to them : poetry , water , the moon , a beautiful face .
Poetry in Persian life is far more than a common ground on which -- in a society deeply fissured by antagonisms -- all may stand .
It is perhaps difficult to conceive , but imagine that tonight on London bridge the Teddy boys of the East End will gather to sing Marlowe , Herrick , Shakespeare , and perhaps some lyrics of their own .
These songs ( practically all Persian music , for that matter ) are limited to a range of two octaves .
Die Frist ist um , und wiederum verstrichen sind sieben Jahr , the Maestro quoted The Flying Dutchman , as he told of his career and wanderings , explaining that the number seven had significantly recurred in his life several times .
The music director of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra , William Steinberg , has molded his group into a prominent musical organization , which is his life .
Our meeting took place in May , 1961 , during one of the Maestro's stop-overs in New York , before he left for Europe .
Did he come from a musical family ? ?
The musician ran away from school when he was fifteen , but this escapade did not save him from the Gymnasium .
Wasn't this an unusually young age to fill such a responsible post ? ?
Had he always wished to be a conductor ? ?
Five years were spent with the Cologne Opera , after which he was called to Prague by Alexander von Zemlinsky , teacher of Arnold Schonberg and Erich Korngold .
Because of the political upheaval in Germany in the 1930's , Steinberg was forced to restrict his activities to the Jewish community .
In 1938 , at the insistence of Arturo Toscanini , Steinberg left Germany for the United States , by way of Switzerland .
Where in Europe was he going now ? ?
First of all , to Italy for a short vacation -- Forte Dei Marmi , a place he loves .
The forthcoming season in Pittsburgh also promises to be of unusual interest .
`` And next year we will do -- also a Ford commission -- a piano concerto by Elliott Carter , with Jacob Lateiner as soloist .
He added that he also stresses the works of these favorite masters on tour , especially Mahler's First and Fourth symphonies , and Das Lied Von der Erde , and Bruckner's Sixth -- which is rarely played -- and Seventh .
`` Now that Bruno Walter is virtually in retirement and my dear friend Dimitri Mitropoulos is no longer with us , I am probably the only one -- with the possible exception of Leonard Bernstein -- who has this special affinity for and champions the works of Bruckner and Mahler '' .
Since he introduces so much modern music , I could not resist asking how he felt about it .
`` There was always and at all times a contemporary music and it expresses the era in which it was created .
With all his musical activities , did he have the time and inclination to do anything else ? ?
And how did he feel about modern art ? ?
What did he do for relaxation ? ?
But his prime interest , apart from music , he insisted seriously , was his family -- his wife , daughter and son .
I was chairman , the only not youthful participant .
`` It is easy for you to talk '' ; ;
`` But you want a job guaranteed when you return '' , I continued my attack .
When I mentioned that for my first long voyage I did not even have the money for the return fare , but had trusted to luck that I would earn a sufficient amount , the young people looked at me doubtingly .
`` Would you advise us to act the same way ? ?
Others mentioned that I might have had to ask friends or even strangers for help and that to be stranded in a foreign country without sufficient funds did not contribute to international understanding .
The debate needed no additional controversy and soon I could ask each individually what he expected from life , what his hopes were and what his fears .
Though the four boys and two girls , the youngest nineteen years of age , the oldest twenty-four , came from varying backgrounds and had different professional and personal interests , there was surprising agreement among them .
The ideal home , they agreed , would be a small private house or a city apartment of four to five rooms , just enough for a family consisting of husband , wife , and two children .
All expressed interest in world affairs but no one offered to make any sacrifices to satisfy this interest .
Once again , as in the days of the Founding Fathers , America faces a stern test .
It is well then that in this hour both of `` national peril '' and of `` national opportunity '' we can take counsel with the men who made the nation .
Seven Founders -- George Washington , Benjamin Franklin , John Adams , Thomas Jefferson , Alexander Hamilton , James Madison and John Jay -- determined the destinies of the new nation .
They thought of themselves , to use Jefferson's words , as `` the Argonauts '' who had lived in `` the Heroic Age '' .
Strong men with strong opinions , frank to the point of being refreshingly indiscreet , the Founding Seven were essentially congenial minds , and their agreements with each other were more consequential than their differences .
Before merging them into a common profile it is well to remember that their separate careers were extraordinary .
Eldest of the seven , Benjamin Franklin , a New Englander transplanted to Philadelphia , wrote the most dazzling success story in our history .
On a military mission for his native Virginia the youthful George Washington touched off the French and Indian War , then guarded his colony's frontier as head of its militia .
John Adams fashioned much of pre-Revolutionary radical ideology , wrote the constitution of his home state of Massachusetts , negotiated , with Franklin and Jay , the peace with Britain and served as our first Vice President and our second President .
His political opponent and lifetime friend , Thomas Jefferson , achieved immortality through his authorship of the Declaration of Independence , but equally notable were the legal and constitutional reforms he instituted in his native Virginia , his role as father of our territorial system , and his acquisition of the Louisiana Territory during his first term as President .
During the greater part of Jefferson's career he enjoyed the close collaboration of a fellow Virginian , James Madison , eight years his junior .
If Franklin was an authentic genius , then Alexander Hamilton , with his exceptional precocity , consuming energy , and high ambition , was a political prodigy .
Less dazzling than Hamilton , less eloquent than Jefferson , John Jay commands an equally high rank among the Founding Fathers .
These Seven Founders constituted an intellectual and social elite , the most respectable and disinterested leadership any revolution ever confessed .
As different physically as the tall , angular Jefferson was from the chubby , rotund Adams , the seven were striking individualists .
Capable of enduring friendships , they were also stout controversialists , who could write with a drop of vitriol on their pens .
The Seven Founders were completely dedicated to the public service .
John Adams took to heart the advice given him by his legal mentor , Jeremiah Gridley , to `` pursue the study of the law , rather than the gain of it '' .
Hamilton , poorest of the seven , gave up a brilliant law practice to enter Washington's Cabinet .
To support his large family Hamilton went back to the law after each spell of public service .
All seven combined ardent devotion to the cause of revolution with a profound respect for legality .
They fought hard , but they were forgiving to former foes , and sought to prevent vindictive legislatures from confiscating Tory property in violation of the Treaty of 1783 .
This sense of moderation and fairness is superbly exemplified in an exchange of letters between John Jay and a Tory refugee , Peter Van Schaack .
`` As an independent American I considered all who were not for us , and you amongst the rest , as against us , yet be assured that John Jay never ceased to be the friend of Peter Van Schaack '' .
The latter in turn assured him that `` were I arraigned at the bar , and you my judge , I should expect to stand or fall only by the merits of my cause '' .
All seven recognized that independence was but the first step toward building a nation .
All sought the fruition of that nationalism in a Federal Government with substantial powers .
The state's rights position was formulated by Jefferson and Madison in the Kentucky and Virginia Resolves , but in their later careers as heads of state the two proved themselves better Hamiltonians than Jeffersonians .
When , in 1832 , the South Carolina nullifiers adopted the principle of state interposition which Madison had advanced in his old Virginia Resolve , they elicited no encouragement from that senior statesman .
Tobacco Road is dead .
Nostalgic Yankee readers of Erskine Caldwell are today informed by proud Georgians that Tobacco Road is buried beneath a four-lane super highway , over which travel each day suburbanite businessmen more concerned with the Dow-Jones average than with the cotton crop .
Those writers known collectively as the `` Southern school '' have received accolades from even those critics least prone to eulogize ; ;
In 1900 the South was only 15% urban ; ;
The field , then , is ripe for new Southerners to step to the fore and write of this twentieth-century phenomenon , the Southern Yankeefication : the new urban economy , the city-dweller , the pains of transition , the labor problems ; ;
Where are the writers to treat these changes ? ?
An example of the changes which have crept over the Southern region may be seen in the Southern Negro's quest for a position in the white-dominated society , a problem that has been reflected in regional fiction especially since 1865 .
Other examples of gradual changes that have affected the Negro have been his moving up , row by row , in the buses ; ;
Since 1954 the Negro's desire for social justice has led to an ironically anarchical rebellion .
The modern Negro has not made a decisive debut into Southern fiction .
Just as the Negro situation points up the gradual and abrupt changes affecting Southern life , it also points up the non-representation of urbanism in Southern literature .
All but the most rabid of Confederate flag wavers admit that the Old Southern tradition is defunct in actuality and sigh that its passing was accompanied by the disappearance of many genteel and aristocratic traditions of the reputedly languid ante-bellum way of life .
Westbrook further bemoans the Southern writers' creation of an unreal image of their homeland , which is too readily assimilated by both foreign readers and visiting Yankees : `` Our northerner is suspicious of all this crass evidence ( of urbanization ) presented to his senses .
In the meantime , while the South has been undergoing this phenomenal modernization that is so disappointing to the curious Yankee , Southern writers have certainly done little to reflect and promote their region's progress .
Faulkner , for one , appears to be safe from the accusing fingers of all assailants in this regard .
As his disciples boast , even though his emphasis is elsewhere , Faulkner does show his awareness of the changing order of the South quite keenly , as can be proven by a quick recalling of his Sartoris and Snopes families .
Faulkner traces , in his vast and overpowering saga of Yoknapatawpha County , the gradual changes which seep into the South , building layer upon layer of minute , subtle innovation which eventually tend largely to hide the Old Way .
Another element to concern the choreographer is that of the visual devices of the theatre .
Thus , the avant-garde choreographers have extended the scope of materials available for dance composition .
An approach that has appealed to some choreographers is reminiscent of Charles Olson's statement of the process of projective verse : `` one perception must immediately and directly lead to a further perception '' .
An earlier but still influential school of painting , surrealism , had suggested the way of dealing with the dream experience , that event in which seemingly incongruous objects are linked together through the curious associations of the subconscious .
Some painters have less interest in the experience of the moment , with its attendant urgencies and ambiguities , than in looking beyond the flux of particular impressions to a higher , more serene level of truth .
Others look to more objective devices of order .
Avant-garde choreographers , seeking new forms of continuity for their new vocabulary of movements , have turned to similar approaches .
The approach to the depiction of the experience of creation may be analytic , as it is for Miss Litz , or spontaneous , as it is for Merle Marsicano .
Midi Garth also believes in subjective continuity that begins with the feeling engendered by an initial movement .
Alwin Nikolais objects to art as an outpouring of personal emotion .
Though he is also concerned with freeing dance from pedestrian modes of activity , Merce Cunningham has selected a very different method for achieving his aim .
The sequence of movements in a Cunningham dance is unlike any sequence to be seen in life .
The sequence is determined by chance , and Mr. Cunningham makes use of any one of several chance devices .
Mr. Cunningham tries not to cheat the chance method ; ;
The North and the South were in greater agreement on sovereignty , through all their dispute about it , than were the Founding Fathers .
The present issue in Atlantica -- whether to transform an alliance of sovereign nations into a federal union of sovereign citizens -- resembles the American one of 1787-89 rather than the one that was resolved by Civil War .
The difference came down to this : The Southern States insisted that the United States was , in last analysis , what its name implied -- a Union of States .
We began by declaring that all men are created equal .
.
The difference between confederacy and federal union in 1861
The Constitution of the Southern `` Confederation '' differed from that of the Federal Union only in two important respects : It openly , defiantly , recognized slavery -- an institution which the Southerners of 1787 , even though they continued it , found so impossible to reconcile with freedom that they carefully avoided mentioning the word in the Federal Constitution .
These are not , however , differences in federal structure .
One is tempted to say that , on the difference between the concepts of sovereignty in these two preambles , the worst war of the Nineteenth century was fought .
Lincoln saw that the act of secession made the issue for the Union a vital one : Whether it was a Union of sovereign citizens that should continue to live , or an association of sovereign states that must fall prey either to `` anarchy or despotism '' .
Much as he abhorred slavery , Lincoln was always willing to concede to each `` slave state '' the right to decide independently whether to continue or end it .
What Lincoln could not concede was that the states rather than the people were sovereign in the Union .
The truth on each side won in the civil war
On their decisive battlefield Lincoln did not distinguish between them when he paid tribute to the `` brave men , living and dead , who fought here '' .
To my knowledge , Lincoln remains the only Head of State and Commander-in-Chief who , while fighting a fearful war whose issue was in doubt , proved man enough to say this publicly -- to give his foe the benefit of the fact that in all human truth there is some error , and in all our error , some truth .
It is much less difficult now than in Lincoln's day to see that on both sides sovereign Americans had given their lives in the Civil War to maintain the balance between the powers they had delegated to the States and to their Union .
Its appeal from ballots to bullets at Fort Sumter ended by costing the Southerners their right to have slaves -- a right that was even less compatible with the sovereignty of man .
As cells coalesced into organisms , they built new `` unnatural '' and internally controlled environments to cope even more successfully with the entropy-increasing properties of the external world .
Political theoretical understanding , although almost at a standstill during this century , did develop during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries , and resulted in a flood of inventions which increased the possibility for man to coexist with man .
3 ,
I am certainly not adequately trained to describe or enlarge on human fears , but there are certain features of the fears dispelled by scientific explanations that stand out quite clearly .
The frequently postulated antique worry that the daylight hours might dwindle to complete darkness apparently gave rise to a ritual and celebration which we still recognize .
I think that we are here also talking of the kind of fear that a young boy has for a group of boys who are approaching at night along the streets of a large city .
Our collective policies , group and national , are similarly based on voodoo , but here we often lack even the empirically successful rituals and are still engaged in determing them .
The achievements which dispelled our fears of the cosmos took place three centuries ago .
Apparently the population as a whole eventually acquires enough confidence in the explanations of the scientists to modify its procedures and its fears .
Perhaps the most illuminating example of the reduction of fear through understanding is derived from our increased knowledge of the nature of disease .
Nothing like Godot , he arrived before the hour .
My wish to meet Samuel Beckett had been prompted by simple curiosity and interest in his work .
I knew that a conversation with the author would not settle such questions , because a man is not the same as his writing : in the last analysis , the questions had to be settled by the work itself .
My curiosity was sharpened a day or two before the interview by a conversation I had with a well-informed teacher of literature , a Jesuit father , at a conference on religious drama near Paris .
Beckett's appearance is rough-hewn Irish .
We walked down the Rue De L'Arcade , thence along beside the Madeleine and across to a sidewalk cafe opposite that church .
`` The confusion is not my invention .
I suggested that one must let it in because it is the truth , but Beckett did not take to the word truth .
`` What is more true than anything else ? ?
Then he began to speak about the tension in art between the mess and form .
I granted this might be so , but found the result to be even more attention to form than was the case previously .
`` What I am saying does not mean that there will henceforth be no form in art .
Yet , I responded , could not similar things be said about the art of the past ? ?
`` Not this '' , he said , and gestured toward the Madeleine .
I asked about the battle between life and death in his plays .
`` Yes .
Given a theological lead , I asked what he thinks about those who find a religious significance to his plays .
`` Well , really there is none at all .
But do the plays deal with the same facets of experience religion must also deal with ? ?
`` Yes , for they deal with distress .
Lunch was over , and we walked back to the hotel with the light and dark of Paris screaming at us .
The personal quality of Samuel Beckett is similar to qualities I had found in the plays .
As a Christian , I know I do not stand where Beckett stands , but I do see much of what he sees .
Even Hemingway , for all his efforts to formulate a naturalistic morality in The Sun Also Rises and A Farewell To Arms never maintained that sex was all .
But for the beat generation all is sex .
It is therefore not surprising that they resist the lure of marriage and the trap of domesticity , for like cats they are determined not to tame their sexual energy .
If Wilhelm Reich is the Moses who has led them out of the Egypt of sexual slavery , Dylan Thomas is the poet who offers them the Dionysian dialectic of justification for their indulgence in liquor , marijuana , sex , and jazz .
The style of life chosen by the beat generation , the rhythm and ritual they have adopted as uniquely their own , is designed to enhance the value of the sexual experience .
The mystique of sex , combined with marijuana and jazz , is intended to provide a design for living .
That is why the members of the beat generation proudly assume the title of the holy barbarians ; ;
And the life they lead is undisciplined and for the most part unproductive , even though they make a fetish of devoting themselves to some creative pursuit -- writing , painting , music .
This confession serves to make clear in part what is behind this sexual revolution : the craving for sensation for its own sake , the need for change , for new experiences .
Who are the creative representatives of this movement ? ?
The women who come to West Venice , having forsaken radicalism , are interested in living only for the moment , in being constantly on the move .
If love reflects the nature of man , as Ortega Y Gasset believes , if the person in love betrays decisively what he is by his behavior in love , then the writers of the beat generation are creating a new literary genre .
There were fences in the old days when we were children .
The only extended view possible to anyone less tall than the fences was that obtained from an upper bough of the apple tree .
That was one epoch : the apple-tree epoch .
Once , then -- for how many years or how few does not matter -- my world was bound round by fences , when I was too small to reach the apple tree bough , to twist my knee over it and pull myself up .
It was mother who planted the verbenas .
More potent a charm to bring back that time of life than this record of a few pictures and a few remembered facts would be a catalogue of the minutiae which are of the very stuff of the mind , intrinsic , because they were known in the beginning not by the eye alone but by the hand that held them .
We enjoyed a paradoxical freedom when we were still too young for school .
The street that is full now of traffic and parked cars then and for many years drowsed on an August afternoon in the shade of the curbside trees , and silence was a weight , almost palpable , in the air .
The streets of any county town were like this on any sunshiny afternoon in summer ; ;
It is worth dwelling in some detail on the crisis of this story , because it brings together a number of characteristic elements and makes of them a curious , riddling compound obscurely but centrally significant for Mann's work .
The wife , Amra , and her lover are both savagely portrayed , she as incarnate sensuality , `` voluptuous '' and `` indolent '' , possibly `` a mischief maker '' , with `` a kind of luxurious cunning '' to set against her apparent simplicity , her `` birdlike brain '' .
The trick these two play upon Jacoby reveals their want not simply of decency but of imagination as well .
The music which Lautner has composed for this episode is for the most part `` rather pretty and perfectly banal '' .
In the work of every artist , I suppose , there may be found one or more moments which strike the student as absolutely decisive , ultimately emblematic of what it is all about ; ;
When I try to work out my reasons for feeling that this passage is of critical significance , I come up with the following ideas , which I shall express very briefly here and revert to in a later essay .
Love is the crucial dilemma of experience for Mann's heroes .
This prohibition on love has an especially poignant relation to art ; ;
Again , the sufferings and disasters produced by any transgression against the commandment not to love are almost invariably associated in one way or another with childhood , with the figure of a child .
Finally , the theatrical ( and perversely erotic ) notions of dressing up , cosmetics , disguise , and especially change of costume ( or singularity of costume , as with Cipolla ) , are characteristically associated with the catastrophes of Mann's stories .
We shall return to these statements and deal with them more fully as the evidence for them accumulates .
It appears that the dominant tendency of Mann's early tales , however pictorial or even picturesque the surface , is already toward the symbolic , the emblematic , the expressionistic .
Something of this can be learned from `` The Way To The Churchyard '' ( 1901 ) , an anecdote about an old failure whose fit of anger at a passing cyclist causes him to die of a stroke or seizure .
The first sentence , with its platitudinous irony , announces an emblematic intent : `` The way to the churchyard ran along beside the highroad , ran beside it all the way to the end ; ;
This man's isolation is not merely momentary , it is permanent .
This strange person quarrels with a cyclist because the latter is using the path rather than the highroad .
This is simple enough , but several more points of interest may be mentioned as relevant .
Life is further characterized , in antithesis to Piepsam , as animal : the image of a dog , which appears at several places , is first given as the criterion of amiable , irrelevant interest aroused by life considered simply as a spectacle : a dog in a wagon is `` admirable '' , `` a pleasure to contemplate '' ; ;
Piepsam is not , certainly , religious in any conventional sense .
The cyclist , by contrast , blond and blue-eyed , is simply unreflective , unproblematic Life , `` blithe and carefree '' .
Piepsam is grotesque , a disturbing parody ; ;
In method as well as in theme this little anecdote with its details selected as much for expressiveness and allegory as for `` realism '' , anticipates a kind of musical composition , as well as a kind of fictional composition , in which , as Leverkuhn says , `` there shall be nothing unthematic '' .
`` Gladius Dei '' ( 1902 ) resembles `` The Way To The Churchyard '' in its representation of a conflict between light and dark , between `` Life '' and a spirit of criticism , negation , melancholy , but it goes considerably further in characterizing the elements of this conflict .
The monk Savonarola , brought over from the Renaissance and placed against the background of Munich at the turn of the century , protests against the luxurious works displayed in the art-shop of M. Bluthenzweig ; ;
The `` reality '' to which they respond is rationally empty and their art is an imitation of the inescapable powerfulness of this unknown and empty world .
These polar concerns ( imitation vs. formalism ) reflect a philosophical and religious situation which has been developing over a long period of time .
Whatever pole of this contrast one emphasizes and whatever the tension between these two approaches to understanding the artistic imagination , it will be readily seen that they are not mutually exclusive , that they belong together .
The mimetic imagination in the arts
The central concern of Erich Auerbach's impressive volume called Mimesis is to describe the shift from a classic theory of imitation ( based upon a recognition of levels of truth ) to a Christian theory of imitation in which the levels are dissolved .
In the first instance , `` mimesis '' is here used to mean the recalling of experience in terms of vivid images rather than in terms of abstract ideas or conventional designations .
The mimetic character of the imaginative consciousness tends to express itself in the presentation of artistic forms and materials .
Underlying these conceptions of mimesis are certain presuppositions concerning the nature of primary human experience which require some exposition before the main argument can proceed .
The most primitive feelings are rudimentary value feelings , both positive and negative : a desire to appropriate this or that part of the environment into oneself ; ;
The principal defender of this view of primary experience as `` causal efficacy '' is Alfred North Whitehead .
A chief characteristic of experience in the mode of causal efficacy is one of derivation from the past .
After only eighteen years of non-interference , there were already indications of melioration , though `` in a slight degree '' , to be sure .
There were more indications by the mid-twentieth century .
For over a hundred years Southerners have felt that the North was picking on them .
In the pre-Civil War years , the South argued that the slave was not less humanely treated than the factory worker of the North .
People talk about `` the law of the land '' .
I was having lunch not long ago ( apologies to N. V. Peale ) with three distinguished historians ( one specializing in the European Middle Ages , one in American history , and one in the Far East ) , and I asked them if they could name instances where the general mores had been radically changed with `` deliberate speed , majestic instancy '' ( Francis Thompson's words for the Hound Of Heaven's Pursuit ) by judicial fiat .
A Virginia judge a while back cited a Roman jurist to the effect that ten years might be a reasonable length of time for such a change .
Moreover , the law of the land is not irrevocable ; ;
The Declaration of Independence says that `` governments derive their just powers from the consent of the governed '' .
To guard against the tyranny of a numerical majority , Calhoun developed his theory of `` concurrent majority '' , which , he said , `` by giving to each portion of the community which may be unequally affected by the action of government , a negative on the others , prevents all partial or local legislation '' .
Circumstances alter cases .
One can meet with aloofness almost anywhere : the THIDIU viewpoint , It Doesn't Affect Us ! !
I must confess that I prefer the Liberal who is personally affected , who is willing to send his own children to a mixed school as proof of his faith .
A dear , respected friend of mine , who like myself grew up in the South and has spent many years in New England , said to me not long ago : `` I can't forgive New England for rejecting all complicity '' .
Complicity is an embarrassing word .
Emerson -- Platonist , idealist , doctrinaire -- sounded a high Transcendental note in his `` Boston Hymn '' , delivered in 1863 in the Boston Music Hall amidst thundering applause : `` Pay ransom to the owner and fill the bag to the brim .
New Englanders were a bit sensitive on the subject of their complicity in Negro slavery at the time of the drafting of the Declaration of Independence , as Jefferson explained in his `` Autobiography '' : ``
The clause reprobating the enslaving the inhabitants of Africa was struck out in complaisance to South Carolina and Georgia , who had never attempted to restrain the importation of slaves , and who on the contrary still wished to continue it .
But that was a long time ago .
New England , as everyone knows , has long been schoolmaster to the Nation .
How did it happen , for example , that the state university , that great symbol of American democracy , failed to flourish in New England as it did in other parts of the country ? ?
A Yale historian , writing a few years ago in The Yale Review , said : `` We in New England have long since segregated our children '' .
Among the recipients of the Nobel Prize for Literature more than half are practically unknown to readers of English .
Heidenstam was born in 1859 , of a prosperous family .
Deciding to become a painter , he entered the studio of Gerome in Paris , where he enjoyed the life of the artists , but soon found that whatever talent he might have did not lie in that direction .
The first result of Heidenstam's long sojourn abroad was a volume of poems , Pilgrimage And Wander-Years ( Vallfart och Vandringsar ) , published in 1888 .
Of the longer pieces of the volume none is so memorable as `` Nameless And Immortal '' , which at once took rank among the finest poems ever written in the Swedish language .
The short poems grouped at the end of the volume as `` Thoughts in Loneliness '' is , as Professor Book indicated , in sharp contrast with the others .
He did not , however , find himself at once .
From this time on Heidenstam proceeded to find his deeper self .
Whether in prose or poetry , all of Heidenstam's later work was concerned with Sweden .
The Charles Men consists not of a connected narrative but of a group of short stories , each depicting a special phase of the general subject .
To carry out this exalted conception the author has combined the vivid realism and imaginative power we have noticed in his early poetry and carried them out on a grand scale .
The first half of The Charles Men , ending on the climax of the battle of Poltava in 1709 , is more dramatically coherent than the second .
In `` The King's Ride '' , Charles breaks out of a long period of petulance and inertia , regains his old self , escapes from Turkey , and finally reaches his own land after an absence of eighteen years .
Then suddenly there was a tremendous revulsion of popular feeling .
Heidenstam wrote four other works of fiction about earlier figures revered in Swedish memory .
Today the private detective will also investigate insurance claims or handle divorce cases , but his primary function remains what it has always been , to assist those who have money in their unending struggle with those who have not .
The mythological private eye differs from his counterpart in real life in two essential ways .
It is this curious blend of rugged individualism and public service which accounts for the great appeal of the mythological detective .
There is only one catch to this idyllic arrangement : Adam Smith was wrong .
Even on the fictional level , however , the contradictions which give rise to the mystery story are not fully resolved .
With the advent of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes , the development of the modern private detective begins .
The curious relationship between Holmes and Scotland Yard provides an important clue to the deeper significance of his eccentric behavior .
In the modern English `` whodunnit '' , this insinuation of latent criminality in the detective himself has almost entirely disappeared .
Like Holmes , the American private eye rejects the social conventions of his time .
Because the private eye intends to save society in spite of himself , he invariably finds himself in trouble with the police .
It is the growing contradiction between individualism and public service in the mystery story which creates this fatal dilemma .
The first of two possible variations on this theme is symbolized by Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer .
It will be shown that the objectives of the cooperative people in an organization determine the type of network required , because the type of network functions according to the characteristics of the messages enumerated in Table 1 .
As a word of caution , we should be aware that in actual practice no message is purely one of the four types , question , command , statement , or exclamation .
Networks illustrating some special types of organization
Presumably a cocktail party is expected to fulfill the host's desire to get together a number of people who are inadequately acquainted and thereby arrange for bringing the level of acquaintance up to adequacy for future cooperative endeavors .
For the occasion on which everyone already knows everyone else and the host wishes them to meet one or a few honored newcomers , then the `` open house '' system is advantageous because the honored guests are fixed connective points and the drifting guests make and break connections at the door .
We consider a rural community as an assemblage of inhabited dwellings whose configuration is determined by the location and size of the arable land sites necessary for family subsistence .
The networks for military communications are one of the best examples of networks which not only must be changed with the changes in objectives but also must be changed with the addition of new machines of war .
On the parade ground the net may be similar to that shown in Figure 3 .
With troops dispersed on fields of battle rather than on the parade ground , it may seem that a certain amount of monitoring is automatically enforced by the lines of communication .
In contrast to cocktail parties , military organizations , even in the field , are more formal .
The assumptions upon which the example shown in Figure 3 is based are : ( A ) One man can direct about six subordinates if the subordinates are chosen carefully so that they do not need too much personal coaching , indoctrinating , etc. .
This organizational network would be of no avail if there were no regulations pertaining to the types of message sent .
It will readily be seen that in this suggested network ( not materially different from some of the networks in vogue today ) greater emphasis on monitoring is implied than is usually put into practice .
Not discussed here are some military problems of modern times such as undersea warfare , where the surveillance , sending , transmitting , and receiving are all so inadequate that networks and decision making are not the bottlenecks .
This is an unsolved problem which probably has never been seriously investigated , although one frequently hears the comment that we have insufficient specialists of the kind who can compete with the Germans or Swiss , for example , in precision machinery and mathematics , or the Finns in geochemistry .
First , we realize that a pure specialist does not exist .
American democratic thought , pointed up the relation between the Protestant movement in this country and the development of a social religion , which he called the American Democratic Faith .
Adlai Stevenson expressed some reservations about this return .
But the most notable thing about the incantation of these ex-liberals was that the one-time shibboleth of socialism was conspicuously absent .
The second specific comment was the report of Eisenhower's Commission on National Goals , titled Goals For Americans .
Does our society have a runaway , uncontrollable growth of technology which may end our civilization , or a normal , healthy growth ? ?
We are already committed to establishing man's supremacy over nature and everywhere on earth , not merely in the limited social-political-economical context we are fond of today .
If we were creating a wholly new society , we could insist that our social , political , economic and philosophic institutions foster rather than hamper man ; ;
corporations now outmoded
The corporation in America is in reality our form of socialism , vying in a sense with the other socialistic form that has emerged within governmental bureaucracy .
The corporation has a limited , specific place in our society .
Proprietorship
Hence government must establish greater controls upon corporations so that their activities promote what is deemed essential to the national interest .
One kind of proprietorship
The company grew out of efforts by two completely inexperienced men in their late twenties , neither having a formal education applicable to , or experience in , manufacturing or selling our type of articles .
During the last years of Woodrow Wilson's administration , a red scare developed in our country .
Those who would suppress dangerous thoughts , credit ideas with high potency .
Despite this danger , however , we are informed on every hand that ideas , not machines , are our finest tools ; ;
Seemingly , with an unrestricted flow of ideas , all will be well , and we are even assured that `` an idea a day will keep the sheriff away '' .
Of course , there must be clarity : a single distinct impression is more valuable than many fuzzy ones .
True , ideas are important , perhaps life's most precious treasures .
Ideas we must have , and we seek them everywhere .
Shakespeare's wit and wisdom , his profound insight into human nature , have stood the test of centuries .
Shakespeare gives us a vivid picture of Shylock , but probably he never saw a Jew , unless in some of his travels .
Shakespeare did not usually invent the incidents in his plays , but borrowed them from old stories , ballads , and plays , wove them together , and then breathed into them his spark of life .
He took the story of the pound of flesh and had to fasten it on someone .
Shakespeare does not tell us that Shylock was an aberrant individual .
There is no justification for such misrepresentation .
Are we better off for having Shakespeare's idea of Shylock ? ?
Thomas De Torquemada , Inquisitor-General of the Spanish Inquisition , put many persons to death .
Ideas , in and of themselves , are not necessarily the greatest good .
Frequently we are given assurance that automatically all ideas will be sifted and resifted and in the end only the good ones will survive .
What of the efficiency of this natural instrument of free discussion ? ?
When Peter B. Kyne ( Pride Of Palomar , 43 ) informed us in 1921 that we had an instinctive dislike for the Japanese , did the heated debates of the Californians settle the truth or falsity of the proposition ? ?
The Leopard's Spots came from the pen of Thomas Dixon in 1902 , and in this he announced an `` unchangeable '' law .
In the same vein , a certain short-story plot has been overworked .
For answers to such questions we must turn to the anthropologists , the biologists , the historians , the psychologists , and the sociologists .
False ideas surfeit another sector of our life .
Helen Deutsch informed us ( The Psychology Of Women , Vol. 2 , , 434 ) that in all cultures `` the term ' stepmother ' automatically evokes deprecatory implications '' , a conclusion accepted by many .
Most assuredly ideas are invaluable .
Ideas need to be tested , and not merely by argument and debate .
Our presidential campaigns provide much debate and argument .
We are reminded , however , that freedom of thought and discussion , the unfettered exchange of ideas , is basic under our form of government .
Assuredly in our political campaigns there is freedom to think , to examine any and all issues , and to speak without restraint .
We must not forget , to be sure , that free discussion and debate have produced beneficial results .
In the field of the natural sciences , scientifically verified data are quite readily available and any discussion can be shortened with good results .
By no means would we discourage the production of ideas : they provide raw materials with which to work ; ;
The President's personality would have opened that office to him .
These began to be apparent in a press conference held during the second illness in order that the consulting specialists might clarify the President's condition for the nation .
Any attempt to reconcile this statement of the central issue in the campaign of 1956 with the nature of the man who could not conceive it as the central issue will at least resolve our confusions about the chaotic and misleading results of the earnestness of both doctors and President in a situation which should never have arisen .
It recurred in the press conferences : the President's remarks about his running developed a singular tone , one which we find in few statements made by public individuals on such a matter .
At the national and international level , then , what is the highest kind of morality for the private citizen represents an instance of political immorality .
So it is that we relive his opening statement in the first television address with the dramatic immediacy of the present .
In assigning to God the responsibility which he learned could not rest with his doctors , Eisenhower gave evidence of that weakening of the moral intuition which was to characterize his administration in the years to follow .
The portrait that had developed , fragmentarily but consistently , was the portrait of a man to whom serious thinking is alien enough that the making of a decision inhibits , when it does not forestall , any ability to review the decision in the light of new evidence .
By contrast , the energetic reaction of the leader to the full demands his decision imposes upon him strengthens the moral intuition and gives us the measure of the man .
The making of distinctions , like the perception of the great distinctions made , is an inordinately difficult business .
For this change is not a change from one positive position to another , but a change from order and truth to disorder and negation .
The civilizational crisis , the third type of change raises the question `` what are we to do '' ? ?
If we examine the three types of change from the point of view of their internal structure we find an additional profound difference between the third and the first two , one that accounts for the notable difference between the responses they evoke .
When disruptive change has penetrated to the third level of social order , the process of disruption rapidly reaches a point of no return .
Of all forms of being , society , or community , has the greatest element of determinability .
It is not enough for man to be an ontological esse .
Thus human perception and human volition is the immanent cause of all social change and this most truly when the change reaches the civilizational level .
Further , change is a form of motion , it occurs as the act of a being in potency insofar as it is in potency and has not yet reached the terminus of the change .
As a further characterization of the liberal conservative split we may observe that it involves differences in the formula for escaping inevitabilities in history .
Unanalyzed responses
Within this context of spontaneous and unanalyzed responses to the experience of civilizational crisis , two basic organizations of response are observable : reaction and ideological progressivism .
The response of reaction is dominated by a concern for what is vanishing .
Despite the hopelessness of the response , it is explicable in terms of the crisis of tradition itself .
The basic truth in the reactionary response is to be found in its realistic assumption of the primacy of the real over the ideational .
When the reactionary response is thus bolstered by an intellectual defense , the characteristics of that defense are explicable only in terms of the basic attitudes of unanalyzed reaction .
All of which brings up another problem in the use of psychoanalytic insight in a literary work .
Now we can argue that the irresistible fate of Oedipus Rex was nothing more than the irresistible unconscious longings of Oedipus projected outward , but this externalization of unconscious conflict makes all the difference between a story and a clinical case history .
It is a mistake to look upon the Oedipus of Oedipus Complex as a literary descendant of Oedipus Rex .
I am suggesting that a case-history approach to the Oedipus complex is a blind alley for a storyteller .
`` The Rocking Horse Winner '' is also a story about a boy's love for his mother .
I had read the story many times without asking myself why it affected me or caring why it did .
We are also struck by the fact that this story of a boy's love for his mother does not offend , while the incestuous love of the man , Paul Morel , sometimes repels .
I am sure that none of the effects of this story were consciously employed by Lawrence to describe an oedipal fantasy in childhood .
In our own time we have seen that the novelist's debt to psychoanalysis has increased but that the novel itself has not profited much from this marriage .
2 .
I have argued that Oedipus of the Oedipus complex has a doubtful future as a tragic figure in literature .
There is probably some significance in the fact that two of the best incest stories I have encountered in recent years are burlesques of the incest myth .
Thomas Mann wrote The Holy Sinner in 1951 .
But The Holy Sinner is not simply a retelling of old stories for an old man's entertainment .
Grigorss is the child of an incestuous union between a royal brother and sister , the twins Sibylla and Wiligis .
Sibylla is pregnant with their second child when she finds the ivory tablet concealed by her husband , and the identities of mother and son are revealed .
In recollection he has said : `` Natural or man-made objects kept coming into my head , but I would suppress them sternly '' .
The worthy Mondrian , seeing these pictures , said in a tone of kindly reproof : `` But you are really an artist of the naturalistic tradition '' ! !
His `` monumental '' abstraction , made up of smooth , metallic `` non-objects '' acting upon each other with great tension , won Helion much acclaim during the 'thirties .
As Helion's work showed more and more nostalgia for the world of man and nature , the pure abstractionists expressed some disapproval ; ;
It is notable that at this time he was writing with admiration of Cimabue's and Poussin's way of filling space .
Later Helion wrote of this phase : `` For years I built for myself a subtle instrument of relationships -- colors and forms without a name .
But his own work was evolving further .
During the 1920's the Abstractionists , the German Bauhaus group of industrial designers , and the new architects all had the dream of some well ordered utopia , or welfare state , in which their neat and logical constructions might find their proper place .
Instead of this the 1930's witnessed a tragic economic depression , the rise of Fascist dictators in Europe , the wasting Civil War in Spain .
In New York he was well received by what was then only a small brave band of non-figurative artists , including Alexander Calder , George K. L. Morris , De Kooning , Holty and a few others .
The darkening world scene , at the time of the Munich Pact , continued to trouble his mind even in his remote Virginia studio .
He had taken out first papers for American citizenship ; ;
In June , 1940 , Sergeant Helion , with a company of reserve troops waiting to go into battle , was sketching the hills south of the Loire River , when the war suddenly rolled in upon him .
At Stettin the university-educated artist , who had studied German , was chosen to serve as interpreter and clerk in the office of the Stalag commander .
In the Stalag , Helion came to know and love his comrades , most of them plain folk , who , in their extremity , showed true courage and ran great risks to help each other .
Every morning contingents of prisoners would be sent out to labor in nearby factories .
Their sentry followed .
Shedding his prison cloak , Helion shot through the gates , now clad in civilian garments and with the passport of a Flemish worker .
To escape from a prison camp required a very special state of mind ; ;
It was a time of revelations for him .
Before leaving for America , he happened to see his old friend Jean Arp and confided to him his new resolutions .
While convalescing in his Virginia home he wrote a book recording his prison experiences and escape , entitled : They Shall Not Have Me Published originally in ( Helion's ) English by Dutton & Co. of New York , in 1943 , the book was received by the press as a work of astonishing literary power and one of the most realistic accounts of World War 2 , from the French side .
Between 1944 and 1947 Helion had a series of one-man shows -- at the Paul Rosenberg Gallery in New York and in Paris -- of his new realistic pictures .
Important as was Mr. O'Donnell's essay , his thesis is so restricting as to deny Faulkner the stature which he obviously has .
Others writing on Faulkner have found the phrase `` traditional moralist '' either inadequate or misleading .
That is not to deny that he has been aware of traditions , of course , that he is steeped in them , in fact , or that he has dealt with them , in his books .
There is no necessity , I suppose , to assert that Mr. Faulkner is Southern .
It is more difficult with Faulkner than with most authors to say what is the extent and what is the source of his knowledge .
But in looking at Faulkner against his background in Mississippi and the South , it is important not to lose the broader perspective .
The ingredients of Faulkner's novels and stories are by no means new with him , and most of the problems he takes up have had the attention of authors before him .
The planter aristocracy has appeared in literature at least since John Pendleton Kennedy published Swallow-Barn in 1832 and in his genial portrait of Frank Meriwether presiding over his plantation dominion initiated the most persistent tradition of Southern literature .
The myth of the Southern plantation has had only a tangential relation with actuality , as Francis Pendleton Gaines showed forty years ago , and I suspect it has had a far narrower acceptance as something real than has generally been supposed .
Faulkner's low-class characters had but few counterparts in earlier Southern novels dealing with plantation life .
Others who wrote of low characters and low life included Thomas Bangs Thorpe , creator of the Big Bear Of Arkansas and Tom Owen , the Bee-Hunter ; ;
One of the early humorists already mentioned , Thomas Bangs Thorpe , can be used to illustrate another point where Faulkner touches authentic Southern materials and also earlier literary treatment of those materials .
Some years ago Julian Huxley proposed to an audience made up of members of the British Association for the Advancement of Science that `` man's supernormal or extra-sensory faculties are ( now ) in the same case as were his mathematical faculties during the ice age '' .
This text from Dr. Huxley is sometimes used by enthusiasts to indicate that they have the permission of the scientists to press the case for a wonderful unfoldment of psychic powers in human beings .
All we want from Dr. Huxley's statement is the feeling that this is an open world , in the view of the best scientific opinion , with practically no directional commitments as to what may happen next , and no important confinements with respect to what may be possible .
It seems quite obvious that all the really difficult tasks of human beings arise from the fact that man is not one , but many .
What will be the final symmetry of the good society ? ?
You could also say that in these pamphlets is a relieving quality of maturity .
At one time it seemed as if the Soviet Union had done us a favor by providing a striking example of how not to behave towards other peoples and other nations .
The defensiveness has been exaggerated by another bad habit , our tendency to rate the `` goodness '' or `` badness '' of other nations by the extent to which they applaud the slogans we circulate about ourselves .
One thing you can say about Mr. Lyford is that he does not suffer from any insecurity as an American .
Even if the self portrait we distribute for popular consumption were accurate it would be dangerous to present it as a picture of the ideal society .
Although we continue to pay our conversational devotions to `` free private enterprise '' , `` individual initiative '' , `` the democratic way '' , `` government of the people '' , `` competition of the marketplace '' , etc. , we live rather comfortably in a society in which economic competition is diminishing in large areas , bureaucracy is corroding representative government , technology is weakening the citizen's confidence in his own power to make decisions , and the threat of war is driving him economically and physically into the ground '' .
The interesting thing about Mr. Lyford's approach , and the approach of the contributors to The Agreeable Autocracies ( Oceana Publications , 1961 ) to the situation of American civilization , is that it is concerned with comprehending the psychological relationships which are having a decisive effect on American life .
We experience a vague uneasiness about events , a suspicion that our political and economic institutions , like the genie in the bottle , have escaped confinement and that we have lost the power to recall them .
The Agreeable Autocracies is an attempt to explore some of the institutions which both reflect and determine the character of the free society today .
These institutions which Mr. Lyford names `` agreeable autocracies '' -- where did they come from ? ?
Many of us may even be secretly relieved at having a plausible excuse to delegate ancient civic responsibilities to a new bureaucracy of experts .
Copernicus did not question it , Ptolemy could not .
First , the observational reasons .
As early as the 6th century B.C. the earth was seen to be spherical .
In light of all this , one would require special reasons for saying that the paths of the heavenly bodies were other than circular .
Additional philosophical considerations , advanced notably by Aristotle , supported further the circularity principle .
Now what is perfect motion ? ?
To return now to the four-element physics , a mixture of muddy , frothy water will , when standing in a jar , separate out with earth at the bottom , water on top , and the air on top of that .
The stars constitute an order of existence different from what we encounter on earth .
Let us re-examine the publicized contrasts between Ptolemaic and Copernican astronomy .
Ptolemy recurrently denies that he could ever explain planetary motion .
It is the chief merit in Copernicus' work that all his planetary calculations are interdependent .
Another contrast stressed when discussing Ptolemaic vs. Copernican astronomy , turns on the idea of simplicity .
Without careful qualification this can be misleading .
Analogously , anyone who argues that Einstein's theory of gravitation is simpler than Newton's , must say rather more to explain how it is that the latter is mastered by student-physicists , while the former can be managed ( with difficulty ) only by accomplished experts .
In a sense , Einstein's theory is simpler than Newton's , and there is a corresponding sense in which Copernicus' theory is simpler than Ptolemy's .
Hence , noting the simplicity achieved in Copernicus' formulation does not provide another reason for the acceptance of De Revolutionibus , another reason beyond its systematic superiority .
1543 A.D. is often venerated as the birthday of the scientific revolution .
In what does the dissatisfaction of Copernicus-the-astronomer consist ? ?
Copernicus required a systematically integrated , physically intelligible astronomy .
Henrietta's feeling of identity with Sara Sullam was crowned by her discovery of the coincidence that Sara's epitaph in the Jewish cemetery in Venice referred to her as `` the Sulamite '' .
Into the texture of this tapestry of history and human drama Henrietta , as every artist delights to do , wove strands of her own intuitive insights into human nature and -- especially in the remarkable story of the attraction and conflict between two so disparate and fervent characters as this pair -- into the relations of men and women : `` In their relations , she was the giver and he the receiver , nay the demander .
Henrietta was discovering in the process of writing , as the born writer does , not merely a channel for the discharge of accumulated information but a stimulus to the development of the creative powers of observation , insight and intuition .
Dr. Isaacs was so pleased with the quality of her biographical study of Sara Sullam that he considered submitting it to the Century Magazine or Harper's but he decided that its Jewish subject probably would not interest them and published it in The Messenger , `` so our readers will be benefited instead '' .
Another source of intellectual stimulus was opened to her at that time by the founding of Johns Hopkins University within walking distance of home .
In the following year her father undertook to give a course in Hebrew theology to Johns Hopkins students , and this brought to the Szold house a group of bright young Jews who had come to Baltimore to study , and who enjoyed being fed and mothered by Mamma and entertained by Henrietta and Rachel , who played and sang for them in the upstairs sitting room on Sunday evenings .
Henrietta , however , was at that time engaged in a lengthy correspondence with Joe's older and more serious brother , Morris , who was just about her own age and whom she had got to know well during trips to Philadelphia with Papa , when he substituted for Rabbi Jastrow at Rodeph Shalom Temple there during its Rabbi's absence in Europe .
One thing Papa had not taught Henrietta was how to handle a young man as high-spirited and opinionated as herself .
1880s : `` little women ''
Mr. March , like Benjamin Szold , was a clergyman , although of an indeterminate denomination ; ;
Bertha Szold was more like Meg , the eldest March girl , who `` learned that a woman's happiest kingdom is home , her highest honor the art of ruling it , not as a queen , but a wise wife and mother '' .
The Szolds , like the Marches , enjoyed and loved living together , even in troubled times ; ;
This time he was making no mistake .
It must be granted that the flouting of convention , no matter how well intentioned one may be , is sure to lead to trouble , or at least to the discomfort that goes with social disapproval .
There were three years of this strange warfare ; ;
To get an idea of the embarrassment and chagrin that was heaped upon Wright and Olgivanna , we should bear in mind that the raids were sometimes led by Miriam in person .
Miriam Noel Wright said , `` Here I am at my own home , locked out so I must stand in the road '' ! !
`` Madame Noel , I think you had better go '' , said Mrs. Cupply .
`` And I think you had better leave '' , replied Miriam .
The animosity expressed by such a scene had the penetrating quality of a natural force ; ;
Under this kind of pressure , it is not surprising that Wright would make sweeping statements to the newspapers .
Little enough joy was afforded Wright in the spring of 1925 , when another destructive fire broke out at Taliesin .
As he made plans for the new Taliesin , Wright also got on paper his conception of a cathedral of steel and glass to house a congregation of all faiths , and the idea for a planetarium with a sloping ramp .
Then Miriam varied the senseless psychological warfare by suddenly withdrawing a suit for separate maintenance that had been pending , and asking for divorce on the grounds of cruelty , with the understanding that Wright would not contest it .
In a few weeks Miriam made another sortie at Taliesin , but was repulsed at the locked and guarded gates .
More likely , you simply told yourself , as you handed us the book , that it mattered little what we incanted providing we underwent the discipline of incantation .
For pride's sake , I will not say that the coy and leering vade mecum of those verses insinuated itself into my soul .
But all this , I am well aware , is the bel canto of love , and although I have always liked to think that it was to the bel canto and to that alone that I listened , I know well enough that it was not .
Whether you experienced the passion of desire I have , of course , no way of knowing , nor indeed have I wished with even the most fleeting fragment of a wish to know , for the fact that one constitutes by one's mere existence so to speak the proof of some sort of passion makes any speculation upon this part of one's parents' experience more immodest , more scandalizing , more deeply unwelcome than an obscenity from a stranger .
You probably would not remember , since you never seemed to remember even the same moments as I , much less their intensity , one sunny midday on Fifth Avenue when you had set out with me for some final shopping less than a week before the wedding you staged for me with such reluctance at the Farm .
But I can see from this latest trick of memory how much more arbitrary and influential it is than the will .
For innocence , of all the graces of the spirit , is I believe the one most to be prayed for .
However , it was not of innocence in general that I was speaking , but of perhaps the frailest and surely the least important side of it which is innocence in romantic love .
You , I could swear to it , remained innocent in this sense until the end .
With each song he gave verbal footnotes .
After he had finished the first two volumes of his Lincoln , Sandburg went to work assembling a book of songs out of hobo and childhood days and from the memory of songs others had taught him .
The result was a collection of 280 songs , ballads , ditties , brought together from all regions of America , more than one hundred never before published : The American Songbag .
The book , published in 1927 , has been selling steadily ever since .
Schopenhauer never learned
The second reason for his popularity is his complete spontaneity with the guitar .
It is not easy to become Segovia's pupil .
`` His fingers labor heavily on the strings and he asked for my help in disciplining them .
To play the guitar as he aspires will devour his three-fold energy as a historian , a poet and a singer .
The public's identification of Carl Sandburg and the guitar is no happenstance .
He is proud of having Segovia for a friend and dedicated a poem to him titled `` The Guitar '' .
Carl says it is the greatest poem ever written to the guitar because he has never heard of any other poem to that subtle instrument .
The New York Herald Tribune's photographer , Ira Rosenberg , tells an anecdote about the time he wanted to take a picture of Carl playing a guitar .
`` Preferably '' , said Carl , `` one battered and worn , such as might be found in a pawnshop '' .
They went to the pawnshop of Joseph Miller of 1162 Sixth Avenue .
`` Mr. Miller was in the shop '' , the Herald Tribune story related , `` but was reluctant to have anybody's picture taken inside , because his business was too ' confidential ' for pictures .
`` But after introductions he asked : ' Carl Sandburg ? ?
`` He wanted Mr. Sandburg to pose with one of the guitars he had displayed behind glass in the center of his shop , but the poet eyed this somewhat distastefully .
`` He chose one from Mr. Miller's window , a plain guitar with no fancy polish .
A knowledgeable celebrity
This has always been Carl's attitude .
When fame came it changed Sandburg only slightly .
Carl thought the question over slowly and answered : `` I know a starving man who is fed never remembers all the pangs of his starvation , I know that '' .
That was all he said , Lewis reports .
In answer to a New York Times query on what is fame ( `` Thoughts On Fame '' , October 23 , 1960 ) , Carl said : `` Fame is a figment of a pigment .
`` Ah , did you once see Shelley plain '' ? ?
Carl has been married to Paula for fifty-three years , and he has not made a single major decision without careful consideration and thorough discussion with his wife .
Mrs. Sandburg received a Phi Beta Kappa key from the University of Chicago and she was busy writing and teaching when she met Sandburg .
She has rarely been photographed with him and , except for Carl's seventy-fifth anniversary celebration in Chicago in 1953 , she has not attended the dozens of banquets , functions , public appearances , and dinners honoring him -- all of this upon her insistence .
The only way to describe Paula Sandburg is to say she is beautiful in a Grecian sense .
She is not only a trained mathematician and Classicist , but a good architect .
She was born Lilian Steichen , her parents immigrants from Luxemburg .
But neither was Lilian her baptismal name .
Lilian Steichen was an exceptional student .
By the time Lilian had been graduated from public school , her parents were doing quite well .
She was pious , too , once kneeling through the night from Holy Thursday to Good Friday , despite the protest of the nuns that this was too much for a young girl .
She read everything else she could get her hands on , including an article ( she thinks it was in the Atlantic Monthly ) by Mark Twain on `` White Slavery '' .
She passed the entrance examinations to the University of Illinois , but during the year at Urbana felt more important events transpired at the University of Chicago .
`` And besides , Thorstein Veblen was one of the Chicago professors '' .
At the University of Chicago she studied Whitman and Shelley , and became a Socialist .
Carl and Paula met in Milwaukee in 1907 during Paula's Christmas holiday visit to her parents .
Victor Berger , the panjandrum of Wisconsin Socialism and member of Congress , had asked Paula Steichen to translate some of his German editorials into English .
A letter awaited her at Princeton .
Paula generously lent me one of Carl's love letters , dated February 21 , 1908 , Hotel Athearn , Oshkosh , Wisconsin :
`` Dear Miss Steichen : It is a very good letter you send me -- softens the intensity of this guerilla warfare I am carrying on up here .
The United States is always ready to participate with the Soviet Union in serious discussion of these or any other subjects that may lead to peace with justice .
Certainly it is not necessary to repeat that the United States has no intention of interfering in the internal affairs of any nation ; ;
Now this concern for the freedom of other peoples is the intellectual and spiritual cement which has allied us with more than forty other nations in a common defense effort .
We and our friends are , of course , concerned with self-defense .
But they must have technical and investment assistance .
In recent years America's partners and friends in Western Europe and Japan have made great economic progress .
The international economy of 1960 is markedly different from that of the early postwar years .
To remain secure and prosperous themselves , wealthy nations must extend the kind of co-operation to the less fortunate members that will inspire hope , confidence , and progress .
America did not become great through softness and self-indulgence .
To us and to every nation of the Free World , rich or poor , these qualities are necessary today as never before if we are to march together to greater security , prosperity and peace .
I believe that the industrial countries are ready to participate actively in supplementing the efforts of the developing nations to achieve progress .
The immediate need for this kind of co-operation is underscored by the strain in this nation's international balance of payments .
Continuing deficits of anything like this magnitude would , over time , impair our own economic growth and check the forward progress of the Free World .
We must meet this situation by promoting a rising volume of exports and world trade .
New Nations , and others struggling with the problems of development , will progress only -- regardless of any outside help -- if they demonstrate faith in their own destiny and use their own resources to fulfill it .
Respecting their need , one of the major focal points of our concern is the South-Asian region .
I cannot express to you the depth of my conviction that , in our own and free world interest , we must co-operate with others to help these people achieve their legitimate ambitions , as expressed in their different multi-year plans .
I shall continue to urge the American people , in the interests of their own security , prosperity and peace , to make sure that their own part of this great project be amply and cheerfully supported .
Other countries , some of which I visited last month , have similar needs .
A common meeting ground is desirable for those nations which are prepared to assist in the development effort .
Because of its wealth of experience , the Organization for European Economic Cooperation could help with the initial studies needed .
By extending this help , we hope to make possible the enthusiastic enrollment of these nations under freedom's banner .
If we grasp this opportunity to build an age of productive partnership between the less fortunate nations and those that have already achieved a high state of economic advancement , we will make brighter the outlook for a world order based upon security and freedom .
As a nation we can successfully pursue these objectives only from a position of broadly based strength .
No matter how earnest is our quest for guaranteed peace , we must maintain a high degree of military effectiveness at the same time we are engaged in negotiating the issue of arms reduction .
America possesses an enormous defense power .
During the past year , our long-range striking power , unmatched today in manned bombers , has taken on new strength as the Atlas intercontinental ballistic missile has entered the operational inventory .
This year , moreover , growing numbers of nuclear powered submarines will enter our active forces , some to be armed with Polaris missiles .
To meet situations of less than general nuclear war , we continue to maintain our carrier forces , our many service units abroad , our always ready Army strategic forces and Marine Corps divisions , and the civilian components .
The deployment of a portion of these forces beyond our shores , on land and sea , is persuasive demonstration of our determination to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our allies for collective security .
Next I refer to our program in space exploration , which is often mistakenly supposed to be an integral part of defense research and development .
We note that , first , America has already made great contributions in the past two years to the world's fund of knowledge of astrophysics and space science .
Second , our military missile program , going forward so successfully , does not suffer from our present lack of very large rocket engines , which are necessary in distant space exploration .
Third , the United States is pressing forward in the development of large rocket engines to place vehicles of many tons into space for exploration purposes .
Fourth , in the meantime , it is necessary to remember that we have only begun to probe the environment immediately surrounding the earth .
Fifth , we have just completed a year's experience with our new space law .
The accomplishment of the many tasks I have alluded to requires the continuous strengthening of the spiritual , intellectual , and economic sinews of American life .
A year ago , when I met with you , the nation was emerging from an economic downturn , even though the signs of resurgent prosperity were not then sufficiently convincing to the doubtful .
Yet we continue to be afflicted by nagging disorders .
the need to protect the public interest in situations of prolonged labor-management stalemate ; ;
the persistent refusal to come to grips with a critical problem in one sector of American agriculture ; ;
the continuing threat of inflation , together with the persisting tendency toward fiscal irresponsibility ; ;
in certain instances the denial to some of our citizens of equal protection of the law .
The group , upon the issuance of its first press release on December 21 , 1957 , designated itself a `` Committee of Investigation '' .
Its second press release was on January 15 , 1958 , and it recommended that the secret papers be destroyed .
On January 18 , Ernest Gross conducted a press conference at the U.N. lasting an hour .
On January 24 Paul Bang-Jensen , accompanied by Adolf Berle , was met by Dragoslav Protitch and Colonel Frank Begley , former Police Chief of Farmington , Conn. , and now head of U.N. special police .
The four , bundled in overcoats , mounted to the wind-swept roof of the U.N.
There , Begley lit a fire in a wire basket , and Bang-Jensen dropped four sealed envelopes into the flames .
The method of destroying the evidence embarrassed Paul Bang-Jensen .
The Gross group had been formed for the express purpose of advising the Secretary General .
Shortly the group would issue its report to the Secretary General , recommending Paul Bang-Jensen's dismissal from the United Nations .
`` Until this Hungarian Committee matter came up , Bang-Jensen was a fine and devoted individual .
Ernest A. Gross leaned back in his chair and told Peter Marshall how Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold had , on December 4 , 1957 , called him in as a private lawyer to review Bang-Jensen's conduct `` relating to his association with the Special Committee on the problem of Hungary '' .
`` Yes '' , Gross went on , `` Bang-Jensen was an up-and-coming young man .
Gross had received Marshall courteously and they were discussing the case .
Gross was behind a clean-top desk , only a manila folder before him .
`` Mr. Gross , your report says that ' our function is investigative and advisory and does not in any way derogate from or prejudice Mr. Bang-Jensen's rights as a staff member .
Gross swung his swivel chair .
`` We have nothing to hide under a bushel .
`` What did you think about his mental state '' ? ?
`` I think our report sums up our finding '' , Gross answered .
`` This was not merely alleging errors , but was carried out by day-after-day allegations in memos , written charges of serious consequence .
`` This is a distressing thing .
`` I've been in government and I can tell some pretty hairy stories about personnel difficulties , so I know what a problem he was '' .
`` What I'd like you to comment on is the criticism leveled at your Committee '' .
`` What do you mean '' ? ?
`` For instance , regarding the fact that the Gross Committee issued two interim announcements to the press during its investigation .
Gross bristled .
`` Well , as a matter of fact , I've looked through back-issue files of New York papers for December , 1957 , and haven't found a great deal '' --
Gross shot another look at Marshall .
`` Then what about the second interim public announcement ? ?
`` The reason for that report was to settle the matter of the list .
`` How about your press conference three days later -- what was the reason for that ? ?
Gross paused and repeated himself .
`` It was foolish of him to keep them , whatever they were .
Hammarskjold didn't like the way it was carried out .
Peter Marshall reflected .
`` Mr. Gross , concerning the formation of your Committee , there's the fact that you have been a legal adviser to the U.N. in the past ; ;
`` I've served as a counsel for the U.N. for some years , specializing particularly in real estate matters or other problems that the regular U.N. legal staff might not be equipped to handle .
`` What did you think about Bang-Jensen's contention of errors and omissions in the Hungarian report '' ? ?
`` Those '' ! !
Gross reached in his desk and pulled out two newspaper clippings .
Gross pointed to the Manley story .
`` The case was that Bang-Jensen came up to Shann claiming he had found further errors in the report .
( Shann's own report , Peter Marshall reflected , describes the encounter as `` immoderate '' .
Gross stopped briefly , then went on .
`` You know , this hits in many areas .
Chapter 22
`` the matters to be considered are obviously of a grave character , and I therefore respectfully request that the hearing be postponed for two weeks in order that I might make adequate preparation '' .
Ernest Gross replied the next day , putting the suspended diplomat's fears to rest .
It sounded like a fair enough invitation , Peter Marshall reflected , and Bang-Jensen must have thought so too , because on the thirteenth , he met the group of three on the thirty-sixth floor of the U.N. .
`` We were requested by the Secretary General , as I understand it , to discuss with you such matters as appear to us to be relevant , and we are not of course either a formal group or a committee in the sense of being guided by any rules or regulations of the Secretariat .
Peter Marshall noted that Bang-Jensen had later referred to his two interviews with the Gross group as `` unfortunate experiences '' , and after his second meeting on the sixteenth the Dane refused to attend further hearings without legal counsel .
J. A. C. Robertson , after serving Gross one week , left for England .
Fortunately the hole was found at last and plugged .
The only lasting difficulty was the food .
The crew of the Caravan never failed to amaze Ann , who during her stay in Salem must frequently have overheard strong sailorly language .
She was now enjoying the voyage very much .
On Sundays , with the permission of Captain Heard , who usually attended with two of his officers , services were held in the double cabin .
When May came the Caravan had already crossed the Equator .
`` I care not how soon we reach Calcutta , and are placed in a still room , with a bowl of milk and a loaf of Indian bread .
While studying at the seminary in Andover , Adoniram had been working on a New Testament translation from the original Greek .
Born a Congregationalist , he had been baptized as a tiny baby in the usual manner by having a few drops of water sprinkled on his head , yet nowhere in the whole of the New Testament could he find a description of anybody being baptized by sprinkling .
As was only natural he confided his searchings to Ann , conceding ruefully that it certainly looked as if their own Congregationalists were wrong and the Baptists right .
Ann was very troubled .
`` If you become a Baptist , I will not '' , Ann informed her husband , but sweeping her threat aside Adoniram continued to search for an answer to the personal dilemma in which he found himself .
By early June they were a hundred miles off the coast of Ceylon , by which time all four missionaries were hardened seafarers .
Ann thrilled to the sight of a delicate butterfly and two strange tropical birds .
Captain Heard gave orders for the ship to be anchored in the Bay of Bengal until he could obtain the services of a reputable pilot to steer her through the shallow waters .
Sometimes ships waited for days for such a man , but Captain Heard was lucky .
The pilot possessed excellent skill at his calling ; ;
Next morning the Caravan was out of the treacherous Bay .
Ann was entranced with the view , as were her husband and friends .
Out came the journal and in it went Ann's own description of the scene :
`` On each side of the Hoogli , where we are now sailing , are the Hindoo cottages , as thick together as the houses in our seaports .
Harriet was just as delighted .
The Indians who came aboard ship to collect the mail also interested her greatly , even if she was suitably shocked , according to the customs of the society in which she had been reared , to find them `` naked , except a piece of cotton cloth wrapped around their middle '' .
At last they saw Calcutta , largest city of Bengal and the Caravan's destination .
Harriet's mouth watered with anticipation when after months of dreaming she sat down at last to her much-craved milk and fresh bread .
Six
The Burmese appeared to have little knowledge of British power or any idea of trade .
`` Go back to America or any other place '' , well-meaning friends of Captain Heard advised them , `` but put thoughts of going to Burma out of your heads '' .
Somewhat daunted , the two American missionaries reached the police station where they were questioned by a most unfriendly clerk .
They explained that they desired only to stop in India until a ship traveling on to Burma could be found .
She describes , first , the imaginary reaction of a foreigner puzzled by this `` unseasonable exultation '' ; ;
Another controversy typical of the war between the Englishman and the Examiner centered on Robert ( later Viscount ) Molesworth , a Whig leader in Ireland and a member of the Irish Privy Council .
In the early months of 1714 , the battle between Swift and Steele over the issue of the Succession entered its major phase .
Of all the Whig tracts written in support of the Succession , The Crisis is perhaps the most significant .
Steele apparently professed his sentiments in this book too openly and honestly for his own good , since the government was soon to use it as evidence against him in his trial before the House .
The final issue of the Englishman , No. 57 for February 15 , ran to some length and was printed as a separate pamphlet , entitled The Englishman : Being the Close of the Paper So-called .
The final section of this pamphlet is of special interest in a consideration of Steele's relations with Swift .
Next , Steele turns his attention to the `` Courtier '' he is addressing .
The Examiner , during Steele's trial a month later , printed an answer from the `` Courtier '' addressed to `` R. S. '' at Button's coffee-house .
On February 16 , Steele took his seat in Parliament .
When Harold Arlen returned to California in the winter of 1944 , it was to take up again a collaboration with Johnny Mercer , begun some years before .
Though they would produce some very memorable and lasting songs , Arlen and Mercer were not given strong material to work on .
Johnny Mercer practically grew up with the sound of jazz and the blues in his ears .
The lyricist's father was a lawyer who had branched out into real estate .
With her son evidencing so strong a musical bent his mother could do little else but get him started on the study of music -- though she waited until he was ten -- beginning with the piano and following that with the trumpet .
When he was fifteen John H. Mercer turned out his first song , a jazzy little thing he called `` Sister Susie , Strut Your Stuff '' .
During the summers , while he was still in school , Mercer worked for his father's firm as a messenger boy .
This rather detached attitude toward life's encumbrances has seemed to be the dominant trait in Mercer's personality ever since .
He has also an extraordinary conscience .
`` That's Johnny '' , sighed the bank president , `` the best-hearted boy in the world , but absent-minded '' .
When the family business failed , Mercer left school and on his mother's urging -- for she hoped that he would become an actor -- he joined a local little theater group .
A story , no doubt apocryphal , for Mercer himself denies it , has him sporting a monacle in those Village days .
Everett Miller , then assistant director for the Garrick Gaieties , a Theatre Guild production , needed a lyricist for a song he had written ; ;
When he heard that Paul Whiteman was looking for singers to replace the Rhythm Boys , Mercer applied and got the job , `` not for my voice , I'm sure , but because I could write songs and material generally '' .
Mercer's Whiteman association brought him into contact with Hoagy Carmichael , whose `` Snowball '' Mercer relyriced as `` Lazybones '' , in which form it became a hit and marked the real beginning of Mercer's song-writing career .
When Johnny Mercer and Harold Arlen began their collaboration in 1940 , Mercer , like Arlen , had several substantial film songs to his credit , among them `` Hooray For Hollywood '' , `` Ride , Tenderfoot , Ride '' , `` Have You Got Any Castles , Baby ? ?
His casual , dreamlike working methods , often as not in absentia , were an abrupt change from Harburg's , so that Arlen had to adjust again to another approach to collaboration .
Speaking of his work with Johnny Mercer , Arlen says , `` Our working habits were strange .
Arlen is one of the few ( possibly the only ) composer Mercer has been able to work with so closely , for they held their meetings in Arlen's study .
While Arlen and Mercer collaborated on Hot Nocturne , Mercer worked also with Arthur Schwartz on another film , Navy Blues .
The American-Negro Suite is in a sense an extension of the Cotton Club songs in that it is a collection of Negro songs , not for a night club , but for the concert stage .
The Negro composer Hall Johnson studied the American-Negro Suite and said of it , `` Of all the many songs written by white composers and employing what claims to be a Negroid idiom in both words and music , these six songs by Harold Arlen and Ted Koehler easily stand far out above the rest .
I feel obliged to describe this cubbyhole .
Something occurred on the morning of the children's party which may illustrate the kind of trouble our restricted toilet facilities caused us .
He arrived on crutches at the Newspaper Club with one of his great pals , Oliver Herford , artist , author , and foe of stupidity .
Mr. Herford touched the fat man's arm .
Governor Alfred E. Smith was the official host at the children's party .
I had had difficulties from the very first day .
City editor Victor Watson of the New York American was a man of brooding suspicions and mysterious shifts of mood .
The Hetman's physical aspects were not those of a savage rider of the steppes .
It was said that the Hetman plotted to take over the entire Hearst newspaper empire one day by means of various coups : the destruction of editors who tried to halt his course , the unfrocking of publishers whose mistakes of judgment might be magnified in secret reports to Mr. Hearst .
Runyon , for his part , had a contemptuous regard for Mr. Watson .
Arthur `` Bugs '' Baer wrote to me just recently , `` Vic wanted to die in harness , with his head towards the wagon .
About the only time the Hetman seemed excited was when one of his own pet ideas was born .
Some of the Hetman's `` ideas '' were dream-ridden , vaguely imparted , and at times preposterous .
`` I can tell you this much '' , he said .
I worked for a day on this plainly ridiculous assignment and consulted several of my own well-informed sources .
The Hetman had a strong liking for a story , any story which was to be had by means of much sleuthing or by roundabout methods .
One day I tired of following the Hetman's advice of `` shadowing '' and of the `` ring-around-the-rosie '' approach to a report that Enrico Caruso had pinched a lady's hip while visiting the Central Park monkey house .
Mr. Baer had an auburn beard , like Longfellow's .
`` We are ready for your next mysterious assignment '' , said Mr. Baer to the Hetman .
Mr. Watson did not have much humor in his make-up , but he managed a mirthless smile .
I thought it expedient to take off my derby , my glasses , and the beard ; ;
The Hetman's `` ideas '' for news stories or editorial campaigns were by no means always fruitless or lacking in merit .
It seems to me now , in a long backward glance , that many of the Hetman's conceits and odd actions -- together with his grim posture when brandishing the hatchet in the name of Mr. Hearst -- were keyed with the tragedy which was to close over him one day .
One finds it difficult to pass censure on the lonely figure who waited for days for a saving word from his zealously served idol , W.R. Hearst .
Much to Damon Runyon's amazement , as well as my own , I got along splendidly with the Hetman ; ;
I remember one day when Mr. Hearst ( and I never knew why he liked me , either ) sent the Hetman a telegram : `` Please find some more reporters like that young man from Denver '' .
The Hetman did have friends , but they were mostly outside the newspaper profession .
There was one time , however , when his face clouded and he suddenly blurted , `` Why did my brother commit suicide '' ? ?
I cannot remember Dr. Gregory's reply , if , indeed , he made one .
If she were not at home , Mama would see to it that a fresh white rose was there .
All the rest of the days in the White House would be shadowed by the tragic loss , even though the President tried harder than ever to make his little dry jokes and to tease the people around him .
A little boy came to give the President his personal condolences , and the President gave word that any little boy who wanted to see him was to be shown in .
The President was even more generous with the First Lady than he had been before the tragedy .
He brought her shawls .
Mrs. Coolidge spent more time in her bedroom among her doll collection .
Among the dolls was one that meant very much to the First Lady , who would pick it up and look at it often .
The Coolidges' life , after the death of their son , was quieter than ever .
Now and then , the President would call for `` Little Jack , Master of the Hounds '' , which was his nickname for a messenger who had worked in the White House since Teddy Roosevelt's administration , and discuss the welfare of some one of the animals .
One White House dog was immortalized in a painting .
I would like to straighten out a misconception about the dress Mrs. Coolidge is wearing in this painting .
Mrs. Coolidge gave Mama this dress for me , and I wore it many times .
But to get back to the Coolidge household , Mrs. Coolidge so obviously loved dogs , that the public sent her more dogs -- Calamity Jane , Timmy , and Blackberry .
The dogs would run through the halls after him like a burst of bullets , and all the maids would run for cover .
Every day , when the President took his nap , Rob Roy would stretch out on the window seat near him , like a perfect gentleman , and stare thoughtfully out the window , or he would take a little nap himself .
Rob Roy was self-appointed to accompany the President to his office every morning .
At dinner , lunch , or breakfast , the President would call out , `` Supper '' ! !
When Prudence and Blackberry were too young to be trusted in the dining room , they were tied to the radiator with their leashes , and they would cry .
Finally , Mama did mention to Mrs. Coolidge that she felt sorry for the little dogs , and then Mrs. Coolidge decided to leave the radio on for them while she was gone , even though her husband disapproved of the waste of electricity .
Mama was now the first maid to Mrs. Coolidge , because Catherine , the previous first maid , had become ill and died .
Every First Family seems to have one couple upon whom it relies for true friendship .
Speaking of breakfast , the President inaugurated a new custom -- that of conducting business at the breakfast table .
He caused a lot of talk when he also chose the breakfast hour to have the barber come in and trim his hair while he ate .
The favorite guest of the house , as far as the staff was concerned , was Mr. Wrigley , the chewing gum king .
Another good friend of the Coolidges' was George B. Harvey , who was the Ambassador to Great Britain from 1921 to 1923 .
The first royalty whom Mama ever waited on in the White House was Queen Marie of Rumania , who came to a State dinner given in her honor on October 21 , 1926 .
Mama was very patriotic , and one of the duties she was proudest of was repairing the edges of the flag that flew above the White House .
Even when Mrs. Coolidge was in mourning for her son , she reached out to help other people in trouble .
Taking a personal interest , she had the doctor assigned to the White House , Dr. James Coupal , look Emmett over .
When Mrs. Coolidge was in mourning , she did not wear black .
On the social side , the chore Mama had at the formal receptions at the White House thrilled her the most .
One night , Mama came home practically in a state of shock .
The Coolidges did not always live at the White House during the Presidency .
Impressive as this enumeration is , it barely hints at the diverse perceptions of Jews , collectively or individually , that have been attested by their Gentile environment .
But the two do not invariably or even typically coincide .
The genuinely interesting question , then , becomes : What factors determine the degree of realism or distortion in conventional images of Jews ? ?
In accounting for realism or distortion two sets of factors can be usefully distinguished : current intelligence ; ;
Predispositions , in turn , fall conveniently into two categories for purposes of analysis .
The foregoing factors are pertinent to the analysis of perceptual images and the broad conditions under which they achieve realism or fall short of it .
Undoubtedly , however , the significance of the volume is greater than the foregoing paragraphs suggest .
I am deliberately raising the policy problems involved in Gentile-Jewish relations .
It is beyond the province of this epilogue to cover policy questions of such depth and range .
My reply is that I associate myself with all those who affirm that Gentile-Jewish relations should contribute to the theory and practice of human dignity .
Within this frame of reference policies appropriate to claims advanced in the name of the Jews depend upon which Jewish identity is involved , as well as upon the nature of the claim , the characteristics of the claimant , the justifications proposed , and the predispositions of the community decision makers who are called upon to act .
We know that much is made of the multiplicity and ambiguity of the identities that cluster around the key symbol of the Jew .
It is not implied that formal principles and procedures are so firmly entrenched within the public order of the world community or even of free commonwealths that they will control in all circumstances involving Jews and Gentiles during coming years .
When we consider the disorganized state of the world community , and the legacy of predispositions adversely directed against all who are identified as Jews , it is obvious that the struggle for the minds and muscles of men needs to be prosecuted with increasing vigor and skill .
Among measures in anticipation of crisis are plans to inject into the turmoil as assistants of key decision makers qualified persons who are cognizant of the corrosive effect of crisis upon personal relationships and are also able to raise calm and realistic voices when overburdened leaders near the limit of self-control .
A truism is that the time to prepare for the worst is when times are best .
Now an abiding difficulty of paragraphs like the foregoing is that they appear to preach ; ;
Let us not confuse the issue by labeling the objective or the method `` psychoanalytic '' , for this is a well established term of art for the specific ideas and procedures initiated by Sigmund Freud and his followers for the study and treatment of disordered personalities .
What we have in mind does have something in common with the goals of psychoanalysis and with the methods by which they are sought .
The relatively long and often colorful selections in this anthology enable the reader to become genuinely absorbed in what is said , whether he responds with anger or applause .
The symposium provides an opportunity to confront the self with specific statements which were made at particular times by identifiable communicators who were addressing definite audiences -- and throughout several hundred pages everyone is talking about the same key symbol of identification .
An advantage of being exposed to such specificity about an important and recurring feature of social reality is that it can be taken advantage of by the reader to examine covert as well as overt resonances within himself , resonances triggered by explicit symbols clustering around the central figure of the Jew .
Two facets of this aspect of the literary process have special significance for our time .
The second timely part of this sketch of literature and the search for identity has to do with the difference between good and enduring literary works and the ephemeral mass culture products of today .
It is possible that the study of literature affects the conscience , the morality , the sensitivity to some code of `` right '' and `` wrong '' .
Still , it would be surprising if what one reads did not contribute to one's ideas of right and wrong ; ;
Literature may be said to give people a sense of purpose , dedication , mission , significance .
One of the most salient features of literary value has been deemed to be its influence upon and organization of emotion .
A sketch of the emotional value of the study of literature would have to take account of all of these .
There is a second feature of the influences of literature , good literature , on emotional life which may have some special value for our time .
In any inquiry into the way in which great literature affects the emotions , particularly with respect to the sense of harmony , or relief of tension , or sense of `` a transformed inner nature '' which may occur , a most careful exploration of the particular feature of the experience which produces the effect would be required .
One of the most frequent views of the value of literature is the education of sensibility that it is thought to provide .
I would say , too , that the study of literature tends to give a person what I shall call depth .
The late R. G. Collingwood , a philosopher whose work has proved helpful to many students of literature , once wrote `` : :
One might argue that the ultimate purpose of literary scholarship is to correct this spontaneous provincialism that is likely to obscure the horizons of the general public , of the newspaper critic , and of the creative artist himself .
When we assert the value of such study , we find ourselves committed to an important assumption .
At this point a working definition of idea is in order , although our first definition will have to be qualified somewhat as we proceed .
We need not , to be sure , expect to find such ideas in every piece of literature .
Understanding a work of art involves recognition of the ideas that it reflects or embodies .
In recent years , we have come increasingly to recognize that ideas have a history and that not the least important chapters of this history have to do with thematic or conceptual aspects of literature and the arts , although these aspects should be studied in conjunction with the history of philosophy , of religion , and of the sciences .
Here we may observe that at least one modern philosophy of history is built on the assumption that ideas are the primary objectives of the historian's research .
The student of ideas and their place in history will always be concerned with the patterns of transition , which are at the same time patterns of transformation , whereby ideas pass from one area of activity to another .
Perhaps the most powerful and most frequently recurring literary influence on the Western world has been that of the Old and New Testament .
We may also recognize cases in which the poets have influenced the philosophers and even indirectly the scientists .
Here an important caveat is in order .
`` Suppose you take Mr. Hearst's morning American at $10,000 a year '' , Brisbane proposed .
The blue-eyed Watson decided that he would dislike living in New York , and the deal fell through .
`` Mr. Lane '' , Hearst said , `` if you ever wish anything that I can do , all you will have to do will be to send me a telegram asking , and it will be done '' .
`` Mr. Hearst '' , Lane replied as he left , `` if you ever get a telegram from me asking you to do anything , you can put the telegram down as a forgery '' .
Hearst took a brief respite to hurry home to New York to become a father .
This was not before the House but before the Judiciary Committee , where he asked for action on one of his pet bills , that calling for an investigation of the coal-railroad monopoly .
Six of the railroads carrying coal to Tidewater from the Pennsylvania fields , Hearst said , not only had illegal agreements with coal operators but owned outright at least eleven mines .
`` The Attorney General has been brooding over that evidence like an old hen on a doorknob for eighteen months '' , Hearst said .
The Congressman tried hard , but failed .
To old-line Democrats , the Hearst Presidential boom , now in full cry , was the joke of the new century .
In a story headed , `` Hearst Offers Cash '' , the Republican New York Tribune spread the money rumor , quoting an unnamed `` Hearst supporter '' as saying :
`` The argument that is cutting most ice is that Hearst is the only candidate who is fighting the trusts fearlessly and who would use all the powers of government to disrupt them if he were elected .
If anything , the conservative Democrats were more opposed to Hearst than the Republicans .
`` Does any sane Democrat believe that Mr. Hearst , a person unknown even to his constituency and his colleagues , without a word or act in the public life of his country , past or present , that can be shown to be his to commend him , could by any possibility be elected President of the United States ? ?
More splenetic was Senator Edward Carmack of Tennessee , a Parker man .
A lone pro-Hearst voice from New York City was that of William Devery , who had been expelled as a Tammany leader but still claimed strong influence in his own district .
Hearst won the Iowa state convention , but ran into a bitter battle in Indiana before losing to Parker , drawing an angry statement from Indiana's John W. Kern :
`` We are menaced for the first time in the history of the Republic by the open and unblushing effort of a multi-millionaire to purchase the Presidential nomination .
The talk of a Hearst `` barrel '' was increasing .
In his fight for the Illinois and Indiana delegations , Hearst made several trips to Chicago to confer with Andrew Lawrence , the former San Francisco Examiner man who was now his Chicago kingpin , and once to meet with Bryan .
`` Never mind , thank you '' , he said .
Another editor pointed despairingly at a bundle of letters that had accumulated for him , saying , `` But Mr. Hearst , what shall I do with this correspondence '' ? ?
`` I'll show you '' , Hearst replied , grinning .
2 .
`` I should , of course '' , he said , `` like any other man , be honored and gratified should the Democrats see fit to nominate me .
The Hearst press followed the Chief's progress at the various state conventions with its usual admiring attention , stressing the `` enthusiasm '' and `` loyalty '' he inspired .
Yet his editors did not abandon their sense of story value .
Trevelyan's Liberalism was above all a liberalism of the spirit , a deep feeling of communion with men fighting for country and for liberty .
The three volumes brought to the fore a characteristic of Trevelyan's prose which remained conspicuous through his later works -- a genius for describing military action with clarity and with authority .
But the Garibaldi volumes were more than a romantic story .
In looking back over the volumes , it is possible to find errors of interpretation , some of which were not so evident at the time of writing .
Trevelyan's Manin And The Venetian Revolution Of 1848 , his last major volume on an Italian theme , was written in a minor key .
Already Trevelyan had begun to parallel his nineteenth-century Italian studies with several works on English figures of the same period .
The biography of Lord Grey is strictly speaking not a biography at all .
Research in the period of Grey and Bright led naturally to a more ambitious work .
But after 1832 , the narrative tends to lose its balanced , many-sided quality and to become a medley of topics , often unconnected by any single thread .
In 1924 Trevelyan traveled to the United States , where he delivered the Lowell lectures at Harvard University .
The History Of England has often been compared with Green's Short History .
Four years after the publication of The History Of England , the first volume of Trevelyan's Queen Anne trilogy appeared .
Trevelyan was at least in part attracted to the period by an almost unconscious desire to take up the story where Macaulay's History Of England had broken off .
Of the three volumes , Blenheim is easily the best .
Ramillies And The Union With Scotland has fewer high spots than Blenheim and much less of its dramatic unity .
I stood on a table , surrounded by hundreds of expectant young faces .
`` May we come with you '' ? ?
`` Well , I might not get that far '' , I told them , `` as actually I have no papers to enter Germany and , as a matter of fact , no permit to return to France once I leave '' .
That was all they needed .
There was only one hitch : the small town of Kehl , on the other side of the Rhine , was still under French jurisdiction .
That evening , as I learned later , the students , enjoying that spontaneous immodesty in action known only to university students , surged out onto the streets of Strasbourg , overturning empty streetcars , marking up store fronts , and shouting imprudently , `` Garry Davis to power '' ! !
As I got off the trolley at Kehl bridge the next morning , I was met by what looked like 5,000 students , some of whom were carrying sticks apparently for the coming `` battle '' with the police .
`` Listen please '' , I called to the students in French .
I marched up to the waiting officials , the students massed behind me .
I took one step eastward .
One of the uniformed officers stepped in my way , demanding to know whether I had permission to enter Germany .
`` No , I have no permission to enter Germany '' , I told him .
`` Alors , you may go no farther '' , he said imperiously .
`` Is this then the frontier '' ? ?
`` Yes '' .
At this , the students let out a yell , knowing full well the actual frontier was beyond the town of Kehl .
`` But I have no permission to re-enter France , and I have just left '' , I told him .
The waspish man stepped forward .
`` No line '' ? ?
The students were laughing uproariously at this piece of logic , and even the policemen were trying hard not to smile .
`` Mais non '' , the Interior Ministry man coaxed , `` you may come back to Strasbourg , now , if you wish '' .
`` Oh ? ?
`` Visa ? ?
`` Ah , then please tell me where the frontier is because this gentleman here '' -- I indicated the French occupation officer -- `` informs me that Germany is just on the other side of him '' .
The Interior man looked uneasily at his French compatriot .
Seeing their hesitation , I said , `` Well , until I have permission to enter Germany , or a visa to re-enter France , I shall be obliged to remain here on the line between two countries '' , whereupon I moved to the side of the road , parked my backpack against the small guardhouse on the sidewalk , sat down , took out my typewriter , and began typing the above conversation .
The reporters were questioning the Interior man and the French officer , both of whom remained noncommittal as to what action , if any , would be taken in my regard .
`` But what will you do this evening , Mr. Davis '' ? ?
`` I don't know '' , I told him , `` except that I will be here '' .
`` I shall see about getting you a tent '' , he said .
That would be a great help , I told him , thanking him for his thoughtfulness .
The day passed eventfully enough , with a constant stream of visitors , some stopping only to say hello , others getting into serious conversations , such as one Andre Fuchs , a free-lance journalist from Strasbourg who wrote an article for the Nouvelle Alsatian in highly sympathetic terms .
`` You do not know me '' , she said in good English , `` but my mother was your governess in Philadelphia when you were a child '' .
Sighting a line from the bridge to a small field directly to the side , I pitched the tent that evening on the stateless `` line '' , digging a small trench around it as best I could with a toy spade donated by a neighborhood child .
Each evening the students appeared with the soup kettle and several petits pains , Esther usually being among them .
On Christmas Eve , students brought out two small Christmas trees which I placed on either side of the tent .
It was a merry if somewhat soggy Christmas for me that year .
In the mail were invitations to speak at the universities of Cologne , Heidelberg , and Baden-Baden .
As it began raining at around eight o'clock on December 26th , I retired into my tent early , somewhat tired and discouraged , my body reacting sluggishly because of the continued exposure .
`` Oh , Mr. Davis , are you there '' ? ?
`` Who is it '' ? ?
`` We're from the Council of Europe , British delegation .
`` I'm sorry .
I heard nothing more .
On the evening of December 27th , Esther noticed my pallid look and rasping voice .
`` No , it's not that '' , I told her .
At that moment , up walked a tall young man with glasses who announced himself as a world citizen from Basel , Switzerland .
`` But of course , with pleasure '' , he replied .
Esther looked at me .
`` What is your name '' ? ?
`` Jean Babel '' .
`` Shake '' , I said .
Esther jumped up , ran to him and gave him a little hug .
`` I am so happy .
Such were the incongruities of the situation that the very police assigned to check up on me were drafted into driving me to the Strasbourg Hospital while World Citizen Jean Babel waved adieu from the `` Line '' ! !
He remembered every detail of his pre-assault movements but nothing of the final , desperate rush to come to grips with the enemy .
Eight hundred and sixty-five Rebels surrendered within their works and a thousand more were captured or surrendered themselves that night and the next day .
A popular belief grew up after the war that the only time during the Civil War that Thomas ever put his horse to a gallop was when he went to hurry up Stanley for this assault .
While the final combat of the campaign was being worked out at Jonesborough , Thomas , on Sherman's instructions , ordered Slocum , now commanding the Twentieth Corps , to make an effort to occupy Atlanta if he could do so without exposing his bridgehead to a counterattack .
On the morning of September 2 the Fourth Corps and the Armies of the Tennessee and the Ohio followed the line of Hardee's retreat .
The next day Sherman issued his orders ending the campaign and pulled his armies back to Atlanta .
Thomas thanked his men for their tenacity of purpose , unmurmuring endurance , cheerful obedience , brilliant heroism and high qualities in battle .
Sherman felt that his own part in the campaign was skillful and well executed but that the slowness of a part of his army robbed him of the larger fruits of victory .
Whatever the military world thought , the political world approved it wholeheartedly .
Official congratulations showered upon Sherman and his army .
Actually the Atlanta campaign was a military failure .
Sherman proved that a railway base could be movable and the most brilliant feature of the Atlanta campaign was the rapid repair of the tracks .
One of Sherman's most serious shortcomings , however , was his mistrust of his cavalry .
Well led , properly organized cavalry , in its complementary role to infantry , had four functions .
Sherman knew the uses of cavalry as well as Thomas but he imagined a moving base with infantry wings instead of cavalry wings .
When McPherson pushed blindly through Snake Creek Gap in a potentially decisive movement , the only cavalry in his van was the Ninth Illinois Mounted Infantry , totally inadequate for its role .
Heat during the Atlanta campaign , coupled with unsuitable clothing , caused individual irritation that was compounded by a lack of opportunity to bathe and shift into clean clothing .
Rank was becoming an explosive issue in all three of Sherman's armies .
In one of the very few letters in which he ever complained of Meynell , Thompson told Patmore of his distress at having had to leave London before this new friendship had developed further : ``
That was a very absurd and annoying situation in which I was placed by W. M.'s curious methods of handling me .
When Thompson and her daughter began a correspondence which included fervent verses from Pantasaph , Mrs. King felt a proper Victorian alarm .
Consequently , on October 31 , 1896 , Mrs. King wrote to Thompson , quite against her daughter's wishes , asking him not to `` recommence a correspondence which I believe has been dropped for some weeks '' .
For his part , Thompson had explained in a previous letter that there would be nothing but an honorable friendship between Katie and himself .
After Thompson came to London to live , he received a letter from Katie , which was dated February 8 , 1897 .
I am a great deal at the little children's Hospital .
Ever yours sincerely ,
Katherine Douglas King '' The invitation was accepted and other letters followed , in which she spoke of her concern for his health and her delight in seeing him so much at home among the crippled children she served .
A week in arrears , and without means to pay , I must go , it is the only right thing .
The `` orphaned poems '' mentioned in the letter to Meynell comprised a group of five sonnets , which were published in the 1913 edition of Thompson's works under the heading `` Ad Amicam '' , plus certain other completed pieces and rough drafts gathered together in one of the familiar exercise books .
The somewhat Petrarchan love story which these poems suggest cannot obscure the fact that undoubtedly they have more than a little of autobiographical sincerity .
Taking into account Thompson's capacity for self-dramatization and the possibility of a wish to identify his own life with the misfortunes of other poets who had known unhappy loves , there can be no doubt about his genuine emotion for Katie King .
The poems which were addressed to her , while they are far more restrained than those of `` Love In Dian's Lap '' , show no great technical advance over those of the `` Narrow Vessel '' group and are , if anything , somewhat more labored .
Whether or not Danchin is correct in suggesting that Thompson's resumption of the opium habit also dates from this period is , of course , a matter of conjecture .
Meynell's remedy for Thompson's despondent mood was typically practical .
3 ,
He was seldom an unmethodical critic , and his reviews generally followed a systematic pattern : a description of what the work contained , a treatment of the things that had especially interested him in it , and , wherever possible , a balancing of whatever artistic merits and faults he might have found .
It was , of course , in this drawing of the balance sheet of judgment that he most clearly displayed his desire to do full justice to an author .
Of course , there were books about which nothing good could be said .
As he had done on his first Imperial sortie a year and a half before , Lewis trekked southeast through Red Russia to Kamieniec .
Catherine's first war against the Grand Turk had ended in 1774 with a peace treaty quite favorable to her .
Through most of 1787 operations on both sides had been lackadaisical ; ;
Potemkin's Army of Ekaterinoslav , totaling , it was claimed , 40,000 regular troops and 6,000 irregulars of the Cossack Corps , had invested Islam's principal stronghold on the north shore of the Black Sea , the fortress town of Oczakov , and was preparing to test the Turk by land and sea .
As his second in command The Prince had Marshal Repnin , one-time Ambassador to Poland .
Then there were the distinguished foreign volunteers .
Though Catherine was vexed at the number of French officers streaming to the Turkish standard , there were several under her own , such as the Prince De Nassau ; ;
Lewis had expected to report at once to Jones's and Nassau's naval command post .
The Prince's perceptions were quick and his energy monstrous , but these qualities were sapped by an Oriental lethargy and a policy of letting nothing interfere with personal passions .
Among the visitors arriving every now and then there were , of course , women .
Right now he found Sophie De Witt , that magnificent young matron he had spotted at Kamieniec four years ago .
But if The Prince fancied women and was fascinated by foreigners , he could be haughtiness personified to his subordinates .
To help him do so The Prince had conferred control of his land forces on a soldier who was different from him in almost every respect save one : both were eccentrics of the purest ray serene .
Alexander Vasilievitch Suvorov , now in his fifty-ninth year ( ten years Potemkin's senior ) , was a thin , worn-faced person of less than medium height who looked like a professor of botany .
When Littlepage was introduced , if the General behaved as usual , the newcomer faced a staccato salvo of queries : origin ? ?
Yet General Suvorov -- who had never forgotten hearing his adored Czarina declare that all truly great men had oddities -- was mad only north , northwest .
For those little men with the short whiskers , shaven polls , and top knots Suvorov reserved a special esteem .
These illiterate boors conscripted from villages all across the Czarina's empire had , Suvorov may have told Lewis , just two things a commander could count on : physical fitness and personal courage .
Mando , pleading her cause , must have said that Dr. Brown was the most distinguished physician in the United States of America , for our man poured out his symptoms and drew a madly waving line indicating the irregularity of his pulse .
At this moment Mando came hurrying up to announce that the problem was solved and all Norton had to do was to sign a sheaf of papers .
After luncheon we took advantage of the siesta period to try to get in touch with a few people to whom our dear friend Deppy had written .
In the late afternoon Mando came back to fetch us , and we drove to the Acropolis .
Having completed our camera work , we started our climb .
More than twenty-four hundred years old , bruised , battered , worn and partially destroyed , combining to an astounding degree solidity and grace , it still stands , incomparable testimony to man's aspiration .
Nearby is the temple of Athena .
My other nugget of art and architectural knowledge -- besides remembering that it was Ghiberti who designed the doors of the baptistery in Florence -- is the three styles of Greek columns .
Another classic sight that gave us considerable pleasure was the Evzone sentry , in his ballet skirt with great pompons on his shoes , who was patrolling up and down in front of the palace .
The evening of our first day we drove with Christopher and Judy Sakellariadis , who were friends and patients of Norton , to dine at a restaurant on the shores of the Aegean .
The great spectacle was a source of rancor , and Son et Lumiere , which the French were trying to promote with the Athenians , was the reason .
Athenian society was split into two factions , the Philistines and the Artists .
The restaurant to which the Sakellariadises took us on this night of controversy was the Asteria , on Asteria beach .
The sand is fine and pleasant , the cabanas are clean , and the parasols , green , raspberry , and butter yellow , are very gay .
For a delightful drive out of Athens I should recommend Sounion , at the end of the Attic Peninsula .
At Sounion there is a group of beautiful columns , the ruins of a temple to Poseidon , of particular interest at that time , as active reconstruction was in progress .
There is a mediocre restaurant at Sounion and I fed a thin little Grecian cat and gave it two saucers of water -- there was no milk -- which it lapped up as though it were nectar .
Norton and I dined one night in a sea-food restaurant in Piraeus right on the water's edge .
This restaurant , too , had a cat , a dusty , thin little creature .
We met some charming Athenians , and among them our chauffeur Panyotis ranked high .
`` Let him become honest , and they discard him .
To exonerate the legislature and thereby extricate himself from a sticky situation , Pike took another course and made it appear that the legislature had been bilked .
The charge was so farfetched that Woodruff paid little attention to it , and answered Pike in a rather bored way , wearily declaring that a `` new hand '' was pumping the bellows of the Crittenden organ , and concluding : `` In a controversy with an adversary so utterly destitute of moral principles , even a triumph would entitle the victor to no laurels .
Despite Woodruff's continuing refusal to debate with Pike through the columns of his newspaper , Pike did not let up his attack for a moment .
To attack Pike directly would gain Woodruff little , for as a penniless newcomer Pike had nothing to lose .
Pike was stunned by the first blast against his character , which was published in the March 4th issue of The Gazette under the name `` Vale '' .
Woodruff said nothing , and Pike , frustrated , stormed throughout Little Rock in an unsuccessful search for `` Vale '' , asking his friends to keep their ears open .
If Robinson was a liar and a slanderer , he was also a very canny gentleman , for nothing that Pike could do would pry so much as a single word out of him .
It took Pike a long time to realize what Woodruff had done , and it had a profound effect on him .
Shortly after the `` Vale '' incident , a rift began to develop between William Woodruff and Governor Pope .
Woodruff wanted this political windfall very badly , and everyone assumed that he would get it because he was a close friend of the governor and his stanchest supporter .
Woodruff was furious .
As summer cooled into fall and winter , even so the relationship between the two men continued to grow colder by the day , and by December of 1834 it was icy .
From his first bout with the canny Woodruff , Pike had learned that it was better not to attack him directly , so , harping on the theme that the cost of printing was too high , he condemned the governor for permitting such a state of affairs to exist .
The governor was not used to having his integrity questioned , and he promptly passed the charges on to Woodruff , demanding that Woodruff answer them .
But in the confused atmosphere of frontier politics , alliances were as quickly broken as they were formed , and as Pike came to favor with the governor of the Territory , the governor fell out of favor with the President of the United States .
2
Pike enjoyed his new social position tremendously , and cultivated in himself those traits necessary to its preservation .
The bulk of his early reputation , however , came not from his poetry or his music , but from his excellence as an orator .
Very soon after his arrival in Little Rock , Pike had joined one of the most influential organizations in town , the Little Rock Debating Society , and it was with this group that he made his debut as an orator , being invited to deliver the annual Fourth of July address the club sponsored every year .
Samuel Gorton , founder of Warwick , was styled by the historian Samuel Greene Arnold `` one of the most remarkable men who ever lived '' .
On the other hand , Dr. Ezra Styles recorded the following testimony of John Angell , the last disciple of Gorton : ``
He said Gorton was a holy man ; ;
There is plenty more to recommend Gorton , the facts of whose life are given in The Life And Times Of Samuel Gorton , by Adelos Gorton .
Samuel Gorton was born at Gorton , England , near the present city of Manchester , about 1592 .
Gorton left England , he said , `` to enjoy libertie of conscience in respect to faith towards God , and for no other end '' .
Soon he was in trouble there , for defending a woman who was accused of smiling in church .
It had been whispered privately that she had smiled in the congregation , and the Governor Prence sent to knoe her business , and command , after punishment as the bench see fit , her departure and also anyone who brought her to the place from which she came ' '' .
The unconquerable Mrs. Hutchinson was residing at Pocasset , after having been excommunicated by the Boston church and thrown out of the colony .
Then he became involved in a ruckus remarkably similar to the one in Plymouth .
Gorton then moved to Providence and soon put the town in a turmoil .
Master Gorton , having foully abused high and low at Aquidneck is now bewitching and bemaddening poor Providence , both with his unclean and foul censures of all the ministers of this country ( for which myself have in Christ's name withstood him ) , and also denying all visible and external ordinances in depth of Familism : almost all suck in his poison , as at first they did at Aquidneck .
Providence finally managed to get Gorton out of the town , and he and some friends bought land at Pawtuxet on the west side of Narragansett Bay , five miles south but still within the jurisdiction of the Providence colony .
Up to now , Gorton had been looking for trouble , and now that he was trying to get away from it , trouble started looking for him .
Gorton and company , however , promptly bought land from Miantonomi a few miles south of Pawtuxet , extending from the present Gaspee Point south to Warwick Neck and twenty miles inland .
Pomham and Soconoco , a couple of minor sachems ( of something less than exalted character ) under Miantonomi , declared that they had never assented to the sale of land to Gorton and had never received anything for it .
However , the General Court at Boston ordered the purchasers of Shawomet to appear before them to answer the sachems' claim .
At Shawomet , women and children fled in terror across the Bay .
You may do well to take notice , that besides the title to land between the English and the Indians there , there are twelve of the English that have subscribed their names to horrible and detestable blasphemies , who are rather to be judged as blasphemous than they should delude us by winning time under pretence of arbitration '' .
The attack started on October 2 , 1643 , and the Gortonists held out for a day and a night .
When the captives arrived in Boston , `` the chaplain ( of their captors ) went to prayers in the open streets , that the people might take notice what they had done in a holy manner , and in the name of the Lord '' .
On Sunday they refused to attend church .
At the trial which took place later , the Pomham matter was completely omitted .
Whether the Fathers , who died before Christ was born of the Virgin Mary , were justified and saved only by the blood which he shed , and the death which he suffered after his incarnation ? ?
Whether the only price of our redemption were not the death of Christ on the cross , with the rest of his sufferings and obediences , in the time of his life here , after he was born of the Virgin Mary ? ?
Who was the God whom he thinke we serve ? ?
What he means when he saith , wee worship the starre of our God Remphan , Chion , Moloch '' ? ?
Gorton answered in writing .
When Fred wheeled him back into his room , the big one looking out on the back porch , and put him to bed , Papa told him he was very tired but that he had enjoyed greatly the trip downtown .
That night after supper I went back over to 48 Spruce Street -- Ralph and I at that time were living at 168 Chestnut -- and Ralph went with me .
The next day he seemed to be in fairly good shape and still in excellent spirits .
`` He has lost much blood '' , he said .
`` Dr. Glenn , I've got a lot of blood '' , Fred spoke up , `` plenty of it .
The doctor agreed , but explained that it would be necessary first to check Fred's blood to ascertain whether or not it was of the same type as Papa's .
That was in the days before blood banks , of course , and transfusions had to be given directly from donor to patient .
They made the tests and came to Fred ; ;
`` Fred , your blood matches your father's , all right '' , Dr. Glenn said .
`` But why in the name of God can't I give my father blood '' ? ?
`` Because , Fred , it could do him no good .
And in a few minutes Papa was dead .
`` W. O. Wolfe , prominent business man and pioneer resident of this section , died shortly after midnight Tuesday at his home 48 Spruce Street '' , the Asheville Times of Wednesday , June 21 , announced .
Funeral services were held Thursday afternoon at four o'clock at the home .
A few years before his death Papa had agreed with Mama to make a joint will with her in which it would be provided that in the event of the death of either of them an accounting would be made to their children whereby each child would receive a bequest of $5000 cash .
Fred and Ralph qualified as executors and paid off what debts were currently due , and they were all current , since Papa was never one to allow bills to go unpaid .
So what Fred and Ralph did was to attempt to prorate the money fairly by taking into account what each of the five had received , if anything , from the estate before Papa's death .
Papa , I should emphasize , had been an invalid the last several years of his life ; ;
For years Papa and Mama had been large taxpayers .
`` Merciful God , Julia '' ! !
But he never expected to do that .
35 .
In the spring of his second year at Harvard , Tom had been offered a job at Northwestern University as an instructor in the English Department .
Actually Tom had been postponing giving them an answer , I'm confident , because he did not want to go out there to teach .
But things were worked out in the family and late in August he wrote Miss McCrady an explanatory letter in which he told her that matters at home had been in an unsettled condition after Papa's death and he had not known whether he would stay at home with Mama , accept the Northwestern job , or return to Harvard .
And that's what he did .
That summer Tom attended the summer session at Harvard , but he did not ask Mama to send him back in the fall .
Well , the Theatre Guild kept that play , and kept it , and finally in December they turned it down .
Tom said he almost burst into tears , he was so disappointed and put out .
Tom was not willing to revise the play according to the plan the man suggested .
It was not until we had returned to the city to live , while I was still at Brown and Sharpe's , that I felt the full impact of evangelical Christianity .
There are millions who accept this doctrine , but few indeed are those who accept it so truly that the fate of humanity lies as a weight on their souls night and day .
Meanwhile I myself was not yet saved .
The basic difficulty , I suppose , was in my ultimate inability to feel a burden of sin from which I sought relief .
There is , of course , the doctrine of original sin , which asserts that each of us as individuals partakes of the guilt of our first ancestor .
This doctrine was repugnant to my moral sense .
Some of these thoughts -- not all of them -- have taken organized form in later years .
I do not claim to be free from sin , or from the need for repentance and forgiveness .
There was one further step in my religious progress .
It is most important that we recognize the law of love as being unbreakable in all personal relationships , whether individually , socially or as between whole nations of people .
As we observe moral law and physical law they appear as being inevitable .
With this conviction , the partition between the sacred and the secular disappears .
In his book Civilization And Ethics Albert Schweitzer faces the moral problems which arise when moral law is recognized in business life , for example .
He is uncompromising in assigning guilt to the man who finds it necessary to inflict or permit injury to one individual or group for the sake of a larger good .
Schweitzer seems , in fact , to acquire for himself a burden of sin , not bequeathed by Adam , but accumulated in the inevitable judgments which life requires of him as between greater and lesser responsibilities .
An uncompromising belief in the moral law has the advantage of making religion natural , even as physical law is natural .
This truth that the moral law is natural has other important corollaries .
So far as `` sacredness '' inheres in any aspect of creation it seems to me to be found in human personality , whether in Lambarene , Africa , or in Washington , D.C. .
Persons , whether white , black , brown or yellow , are a concern of God .
Such is the field for exercising our reverence .
This intellectual approach to spiritual life suited me well , because I was never content to lead a divided life .
Let us now give some thought to the soul .
This was a profound statement .
Gone are the days when , in the nineteenth century , scientists thought that they were close to the attainment of complete knowledge of the physical universe .
This complacency was blown to bits by the relativity of Einstein , the revelation of the complex anatomy of the atom and the discovery of the expanding universe .
It is as if we , in our center of human observation , from time to time penetrate more deeply into the unknown .
There are some people , intelligent people , who seem to be untouched by the sea of wonder in which we are immersed and in which we spend our lives .
The subject of immortality brings to mind a vivid incident which took place in 1929 at Montreux in Switzerland .
Criticism is as old as literary art and we can set the stage for our study of three moderns if we see how certain critics in the past have dealt with the ethical aspects of literature .
Plato and Aristotle
All through The Republic , Plato attends to the way art relates to the general life and ultimately to a good life for his citizens .
Plato is , at times , just as suspicious of the poets themselves as he is of their work .
Poets , moreover , dwell on human passions .
Plato's attitude toward poetry has always been something of an enigma , because he is so completely sensitive to its charm .
While Plato finally allows a few acceptable hymns to the gods and famous men , still he clearly leaves the way open for further discussion of the issue .
We may further grant to those of her ( Poetry's ) defenders who are lovers of poetry and yet not poets , the permission to speak in prose on her behalf : let them show not only that she is pleasant but also useful to States and to human life , and we will listen in a kindly spirit ; ;
When we turn to Aristotle's ideas on the moral measure of literature , it is at once apparent that he is at times equally concerned about the influence of the art .
In Aristotle's analysis of tragedy in the Poetics , we find an attempt to isolate the art , to consider only those things proper to it , to discover how it differs from other arts , and to deal with the effects peculiar to it .
Aristotle's method in the Poetics , then , does suggest that we should isolate the work .
Gosson and Sidney
The most famous document that comes out of this dispute is perhaps Sir Philip Sidney's An Apologie For Poetrie , published in 1595 .
According to William Ringler's study , Stephen Gosson , the theater business in London had become a thriving enterprise by 1577 , and , in the opinion of many , a thoroughly bad business .
In the early days of this controversy over the theater one of the interested parties , Stephen Gosson , published a little tract in which he objected mildly to the abuses of art , rather than the art itself .
But it would not be very satisfactory to leave our conclusions at the point just reached .
We find , in the first place , that the students overwhelmingly approve of higher education , positively evaluate the job their own institution is doing , do not accept most of the criticisms levelled against higher education in the public prints , and , on the whole , approve of the way their university deals with value-problems and value inculcation .
Students are approximately equally divided between those who regard vocational preparation as the primary goal of an ideal education and those who chose a general liberal education .
Students' choices of ideal educational goals are not arbitrary or whimsical .
The same patterned consistency shows itself in occupational choices .
Occupational choices are also useful -- and interesting -- in bringing out clearly that values do not constitute the only component in goals and aspirations .
In their views on dating , courtship , sex , and family life , our students prefer what they are expected to prefer .
`` Conservatism '' and `` traditionalism '' seem implied by what has just been said .
As one looks at the existing evidence , one finds a correlation , although only a slight one , between high grades and `` libertarian '' values .
There is now substantial evidence from several major studies of college students that the experience of the college years results in a certain , selective homogenization of attitudes and values .
To the extent that our sampling of the orientations of American college students in the years 1950 and 1952 may be representative of our culture -- and still valid in 1959 -- we are disposed to question the summary characterization of the current generation as silent , beat , apathetic , or as a mass of other-directed conformists who are guided solely by social radar without benefit of inner gyroscopes .
In the field of religious beliefs and values , the college students seem to faithfully reflect the surrounding culture .
Our first impression of the data was that the students were surprisingly orthodox and religiously involved .
Kluckhohn recently has summarized evidence regarding changes in values during a period of years , primarily 1935-1955 , but extending much farther back in some instances .
From New Jersey , Morgan hastened to the headquarters of Washington at Whitemarsh , Pennsylvania , arriving there on November 18th .
On the morning of November 17th , Cornwallis and 2,000 men had left Philadelphia with the object of capturing Fort Mercer at Red Bank , New Jersey .
`` I never saw men '' , Lafayette declared in regard to the riflemen , `` so merry , so spirited , and so desirous to go on to the enemy , whatever force they might have , as that small party in this fight '' .
A few days later it was learned that General Howe was planning an attack upon the American camp .
The Americans lost forty-four men , among them Major Joseph Morris of Morgan's regiment , an officer who was regarded with high esteem and affection , not only by his commander , but by Washington and Lafayette as well .
Apparently still sensitive about the idea with which General Gates had approached him at Saratoga , namely , that George Washington be replaced , Morgan was vehement in his support of the commander-in-chief during the campaign around Philadelphia .
In late December , the American army moved from Whitemarsh to Valley Forge , and although the distance was only 13 miles , the journey took more than a week because of the bad weather , the barefooted and almost naked men .
Morgan and his corps were placed on the west side of the Schuylkill River , with instructions to intercept all supplies found going to the city and to keep a close eye on the movements of the enemy .
Morgan complained to Washington about the men detailed to him for scouting duty , most of them he said being useless .
If the hardships of the winter at Valley Forge were trying for healthy men , they were , of course , much more so for those not in good health .
But Morgan did not leave before he had written a letter to a William Pickman in Salem , Massachusetts , apparently an acquaintance , praising Washington and saying that the slanders propagated about him were `` opposed by the general current of the people to exalt General Gates at the expense of General Washington was injurious to the latter .
It is doubtful if Morgan was able to take home much money to his wife and children , for his pay , as shown by the War Department Abstracts of early 1778 was $75 a month as a colonel , and that apt to be delayed .
There must have been special feelings of joy and patriotism in the heart of Daniel Morgan too , when the news was received on April 30th of the recognition by France of the independence of the United States .
Apparently no serious disorders resulted from the celebration , and within a few days , Morgan joined the force of Lafayette who now had command of some 2,000 men at Barren Hill , not far above Philadelphia on the Schuylkill .
Washington evidently was anxious for Morgan to be cautious as well as aggressive , for on May 17th , 18th and 20th he admonished the leader of the riflemen-rangers to be on the alert .
For by now the original cause of the quarrel , Philip's seizure of Gascony , was only one strand in the spider web of French interests that overlay all western Europe and that had been so well and closely spun that the lightest movement could set it trembling from one end to the other .
It is hard not to lay most of the blame for their failures on the pope .
Because of these involvements in the matter at stake , Boniface lacked the impartiality that is supposed to be an essential qualification for the position of arbiter , and in retrospect that would seem to be sufficient reason why the English embassies to the Curia proved so fruitless .
This lofty disregard for others was not shared by such men as Pierre Flotte and his associates , that `` brilliant group of mediocre men '' , as Powicke calls them , who provided the brains for the French embassy that came to Rome under the nominal leadership of the archbishop of Narbonne , the duke of Burgundy , and the count of St.-Pol .
The English , relying on a prejudiced arbiter and confronted with superior diplomatic skill , were also hampered in their negotiations by the events that were taking place at home .
These shifts in alliance and allegiance not only increased the difficulties confronting the English embassy as a whole , but also directly involved the two Savoyards , Amadee and Othon .
But although in many of these discussions Othon and Amadee might have been tempted to consider their own interests as well as those of the king , Edward's confidence in them was so absolute that they were made the acknowledged leaders of the embassy .
This also gave them the unpleasant duty of being spokesmen for the mission , and they could foresee that that would not be easy .
In all the talk of feudal rights , the knights and bishops must never forget the woolworkers , nor was it easy to do so , for all along the road to Italy they passed the Florentine pack trains going home with their loads of raw wool from England and rough Flemish cloth , the former to be spun and woven by the Arte Della Lana and the latter to be refined and dyed by the Arte Della Calimala with the pigment recently discovered in Asia Minor by one of their members , Bernardo Rucellai , the secret of which they jealously kept for themselves .
They had other topics of conversation , besides their news from courts and fairs , which were of interest to Othon , the builder of castles in Wales and churches in his native country .
It usually turned out well for him because either he liked the right people or there were only a few wrong people in the town .
In spite of his being well liked there were a few people who were very careful about Alfred .
Time went on and everybody got older .
Spring was life -- and Alfred Alpert in his sickroom was death .
Alfred began to put his affairs in order , and he went about it like a man putting his things into storage .
Alfred was getting too sick to stay in his own home .
Meltzer knew why I had come for him .
For a few minutes there was nothing to hear .
Meltzer stayed with Alfred , and when the door opened they both came out .
Outside , his brother Harry was waiting for him -- he had come to say good-bye .
I went to visit Alfred in the Kingston Hospital a few times .
The jug stayed at the hospital and the water -- what can happen to water ? ?
12 `` where is it written '' ? ?
Mr. Banks was always called Banks the Butcher until he left town and the shop passed over to Meltzer the Scholar who then became automatically Meltzer the Butcher .
Banks had a family -- a wife , a daughter , and a son .
Banks the Butcher was a hard master and a hard father , a man who didn't seem to know the difference between the living flesh of his family and the hanging carcasses of his stock in trade .
Lilly Banks and I became friends .
Every chance I got I left the hotel to visit Lilly .
I helped Lilly in the store .
When the work was finished , we would walk .
Lilly preferred the loneliness of that walk .
It wasn't hard to understand .
When we went for our walks Lilly's brother would come along every once in a while .
The brother and sister seemed to be a sort of mutual-aid society , a little fortress of kindness for each other in a hard world .
The turn of the century , or to be more precise , the two decades preceeding and following it , marks a great change in the history of early English scholarship .
What was true for archaeology was also true of place-name studies .
Diplomatic is another area for which the dawn of the twentieth century marks the beginning of modern standards of scholarship .
In sum , it can be said that the techniques and standards of present day have their origin at the turn of the century .
Almost inevitably , the first result of this technological revolution was a reaction against the methods and in many cases the conclusions of the Oxford school of Stubbs , Freeman and ( particularly ) Green regarding the nature of the Anglo-Saxon conquest of Britain .
Early in the present century , W. H. Stevenson continued the attack with a savage article against Guest .
In fact , modern scholarly opinion in the main has not retreated all the way back to the destructive scepticism of the first half of the nineteenth century .
Therefore , in one way Kemble and Lappenberg have been vindicated .
At this point , of course , the issue has become complicated by a development unforeseen by Lappenberg and Kemble .
Therefore , it is plain that the clear distinctions of the nineteenth century are no longer with us .
Now omitting for a moment some recent developments we can say the Saxon Shore hypothesis of Lappenberg and Kemble has undergone virtual eclipse in this century .
The primary reason for the abandonment of the `` shore occupied by '' thesis has been the assimilation and accumulation of archaeological evidence , the most striking feature of early English studies in this century .
In recent years , however , a wind of change seems to be blowing through early English historical circles .
What exactly are we trying to prove ? ?
The problem , in other words , is strictly a chronological one .
It might be well to consider the literary evidence first because it can provide us with an answer to one important question ; ;
To do so , something was necessary beyond volunteering because there was little glamour or romance in the European war ; ;
Baker gave Leonard Wood credit for the initiation of the draft of soldiers ; ;
Even so , the Draft Act encountered rough sledding in its progress through the Congress .
In spite of powerful opposition the Draft Act finally passed Congress on May 17 , 1917 .
It was one thing to call men to the colors ; ;
In later years Josephus Daniels was to claim that World War 1 , was the first in American history in which there was great concern for both the health and morals of our soldiers .
Both Secretary of War Baker and Secretary of Navy Daniels devoted much time and effort to the problem of providing reasonably normal and wholesome activities in camp for the millions of men who had been removed from their home environment .
During the brief Mexican venture Fosdick's report to the Secretary recommended a definite stand by the War Department against the saloon and the excesses of prostitution .
When the United States entered the First World War Baker made certain that the Draft Act of 1917 prohibited the sale of liquor to men in uniform and that it provided for broad zones around the camps in which prostitution was outlawed .
This was the negative side of the situation .
In the imagination of the nineteenth century the Greek tragedians and Shakespeare stand side by side , their affinity transcending all the immense contrarieties of historical circumstance , religious belief , and poetic form .
We no longer use the particular terms of Lessing and Victor Hugo .
It is the triumph of rationalism and secular metaphysics which marks the point of no return .
In Greek tragedy as in Shakespeare , mortal actions are encompassed by forces which transcend man .
In Athens , in Shakespeare's England , and at Versailles , the hierarchies of worldly power were stable and manifest .
With the rise to power of the middle class the centre of gravity in human affairs shifted from the public to the private .
The novel was not only the presenter of the new , secular , rationalistic , private world of the middle class .
These conceptions and the manner in which they were transposed into poetry or engendered by poetic form are intrinsic to western life from the time of Aeschylus to that of Shakespeare .
After the seventeenth century the audience ceased to be an organic community to which these ideas and their attendant habits of figurative language would be natural or immediately familiar .
The romantics were the immediate inheritors of this tremendous change .
The wedding of the Hellenic to the northern genius was one of the dominant motifs in Goethe's thought .
The third Act of Faust 2 , is a formal celebration of the union between the Germanic and the classic , between the spirit of Euripides and that of romantic drama .
This translation , or rather the fusion of the two ideals , creates the Gesamtkunstwerke , the `` total art form '' .
The Bishop of Gloucester described the elder Thomas in 1577 as the richest recusant in his diocese , worth five hundred pounds a year in lands and goods .
Edward Greville , born about 1565 , had inherited Milcote on the execution of his father Lodowick for murder in 1589 .
In his letter mentioning Shakespeare on January 24 , 1597/8 , Sturley asked Quiney especially that `` theare might ( be ) bi Sir Ed. Grev. some meanes made to the Knightes of the Parliament for an ease and discharge of such taxes and subsedies wherewith our towne is like to be charged , and I assure u I am in great feare and doubte bi no meanes hable to paie .
Adrian Quiney wrote to his son Richard on October 29 and again perhaps the next day , since the bearer of the letter , the bailiff , was expected to reach London on November 1 .
Richard Quiney the younger , a schoolboy of eleven , wrote a letter in Latin asking his father to buy copybooks ( `` chartaceos libellos ) '' ) for him and his brother .
Stratford's petition to the queen declared that two great fires had burnt two hundred houses in the town , with household goods , to the value of twelve thousand pounds .
Since more is known about Quiney than about any other acquaintance of Shakespeare in Stratford , his career may be followed to its sudden end in 1602 .
After Quiney was elected bailiff in September , 1601 , without Greville's approval , Greene wrote him that Coke had promised to be of counsel for Stratford and had advised `` that the office of bayly may be exercised as it is taken upon you , ( Sr. Edwardes his consent not beinge hadd to the swearinge of you ) '' .
The fall of Rome , the discovery of precious metals , and the Protestant Reformation were all links and could only be explained and understood by comprehending the links that preceded and those that followed .
Often the historian must consider the use of intuition or instinct by those individuals or nations which he is studying .
Adams firmly contended that the historian must never underrate the impact of the geographical environment on history .
Brooks Adams was consistent in his admonishments to historians about the necessary tools or insights they needed to possess .
His credulity is perhaps best illustrated in his introduction to The Emancipation Of Massachusetts , which purports to examine the trials of Moses and to draw a parallel between the leader of the Israelite exodus from Egypt and the leadership of the Puritan clergy in colonial New England .
A similar amateurish characteristic is revealed in Adams' failure to check the accuracy and authenticity of his informational sources .
In all fairness it must be admitted that Adams made no pretense at being an impartial historian .
All of Adams' work reflects this dogmatic characteristic .
All critics of Adams and his methods have observed this particular deficiency .
In summary , Brooks Adams felt that the nature of history was order and that the order so discovered was as much subject to historical laws as the forces of nature .
Religion without supernaturalism
Adams was not breaking new ground when he claimed that the worship of an unseen power was in reality a reflection of man's inability to cope with his environment .
`` The Germans in the fourth century were a very simple race , who comprehended little of natural laws , and who therefore referred phenomena they did not understand to supernatural intervention .
Adams contended that once such a special class had been created it became a vested interest and sought to maintain itself by assuming exclusive control over the relationships between God and man .
Despite their adherence to the status quo , the forces of organized religion were compelled to make adjustments as increasing civilization augmented human knowledge .
Stephens had written his classic `` incidents of travel '' about these regions a hundred years before , and Catherwood , who had studied Piranesi in London and the great ruins of Egypt and Greece , had drawn the splendid illustrations that accompanied the text .
Victor had led an adventurous life .
I had had my name taken out of the telephone book , and this was partly because of a convict who had been discharged from Sing Sing and who called me night after night .
To the Weston house came once William Allen Neilson , the president of Smith College who had been one of my old professors and who still called me `` Boy '' when I was sixty .
Two or three times , C. C. Burlingham came to lunch with us in Weston , that wonderful man who lived to be more than a hundred years old and whose birthplace had been my Wall Street suburb .
Mr. Burlingham , -- `` C.C.B. '' -- wrote to me once about an old friend of mine , S. K. Ratcliffe , whom I had first met in London in 1914 and who also came out for a week-end in Weston .
Many years later I went to see S.K. in England , where he was living at Whiteleaf , near Aylesbury , and he showed me beside his cottage there the remains of the road on which Boadicea is supposed to have travelled .
He looked at her as she spoke , then got up as she was speaking still , and , simply and wordlessly , walked out .
He went to the Hotel Mayflower and telegraphed Mencken .
On January 4 , with the boys back at school and college , Mrs. Lewis wrote Harcourt to say that she was `` through , quite through '' .
Harcourt replied : `` I do really hope you can achieve serenity in the course of time .
8
He did not neglect his wife in Cromwell Hall , but telephoned her and wrote her with assurances of his continuing interest and of his wish to `` stand behind '' her in their separation and of his hope that there would be no bitterness between them .
He telephoned L. M. Birkhead and asked him and his wife to come to Europe as his guests , but Birkhead declined on the grounds that one of them must be in the United States when Elmer Gantry was published .
On the evening that they were to sail , Lewis himself gave a party , but he was too indisposed to appear at it .
Blackman had brought news from Kansas City .
In London Lewis took the usual suite in Bury Street .
Lewis's remarks about his marriage were suggestive enough to induce American reporters to invade the offices of Harcourt , Brace & Company for information , to pursue Mrs. Lewis to Cromwell Hall , and , after she had returned to New York , to ferret her out at the Stanhope on upper Fifth Avenue where she had taken an apartment .
At once upon his arrival , he telephoned Lady Sybil Colefax who invited them to tea , and then Lewis decided to give a party as a quick way of rounding up his friends .
When Blackman emerged from the bedroom , everyone was gone except the tolerant Lord Thomson , who stayed and chatted with him for half an hour , and then Blackman lay awake most of that night , despairing of what he must expect on the Continent .
Lewis gave him a guidebook tour of London and , motoring and walking , took him to Stratford , but the London stay was for only ten days , and on the twentieth they took the train for Southampton , where they spent the night for an early morning Channel crossing .
From 1613 on , if the lists exist , they contain between twenty to thirty names .
It is not possible to reconstruct fully the arrangements whereby these honors lists were then made up or even how the names that they contained assumed the order in which we find them .
Recapitulation of Milton's undergraduate career
His other activities are not so easily recovered .
What manner of person does Milton appear to have been when as an undergraduate he resided at Christ's College ? ?
But these prolusions that we have surviving from the Christ's College days are only one phase of his existence then .
Writers of this class of science fiction have clearly in mind the assumptions that man can master the principles of this cause-and-effect universe and that such mastery will necessarily better the human lot .
Childhood's End -- apparently indebted to Kurd Lasswitz's Utopian romance , Auf Zwei Planeten ( 1897 ) , and also to Wells's Histories Of The Future , especially , The World Set Free ( 1914 ) and The Shape Of Things To Come ( 1933 ) -- describes the bloodless conquest of earth by the Overlords , vastly superior creatures who come to our world in order to prepare the human race for its next stage of development , an eventual merging with the composite mind of the universe .
Considering then the optimism which has permeated science fiction for so long , what is really remarkable is that during the last twelve years many science-fiction writers have turned about and attacked their own cherished vision of the future , have attacked the Childhood's End kind of faith that science and technology will inevitably better the human condition .
There is , of course , nothing new about dystopias , for they belong to a literary tradition which , including also the closely related satiric utopias , stretches from at least as far back as the eighteenth century and Swift's Gulliver's Travels to the twentieth century and Zamiatin's We , Capek's War With The Newts , Huxley's Brave New World , E. M. Forster's `` The Machine Stops '' , C. S. Lewis's That Hideous Strength , and Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four , and which in science fiction is represented before the present deluge as early as Wells's trilogy , The Time Machine , `` A Story Of The Days To Come '' , and When The Sleeper Wakes , and as recently as Jack Williamson's `` With Folded Hands '' ( 1947 ) , the classic story of men replaced by their own robots .
Not all recent science fiction , however , is dystopian , for the optimistic strain is still very much alive in Mission Of Gravity and Childhood's End , as we have seen , as well as in many other recent popular novels and stories like Fred Hoyle's The Black Cloud ( 1957 ) ; ;
Easily the best known of these three novels is The Space Merchants , a good example of a science-fiction dystopia which extrapolates much more than the impact of science on human life , though its most important warning is in this area , namely as to the use to which discoveries in the behavioral sciences may be put .
While The Space Merchants indicates , as Kingsley Amis has correctly observed , some of the `` impending consequences of the growth of industrial and commercial power '' and satirizes `` existing habits in the advertising profession '' , its warning and analysis penetrate much deeper .
Pohl and Kornbluth's ad men have long since thrown out appeals to reason and developed techniques of advertising which tie in with `` every basic trauma and neurosis in American life '' , which work on the libido of consumers , which are linked to the `` great prime motivations of the human spirit '' .
Now the basic question to be asked in this situation is what motivates the manipulators , that is , what are their values ? ?
We often say of a person that he `` looks young for his age '' or `` old for his age '' .
A mind expressing itself in words may reveal itself a little less obviously as old or young .
We may say of some unfortunates that they were never young .
No good can come of contemplating the sad , inevitable fact that once youth has passed `` a worse and worse time still succeeds the former '' .
Let me then ( and in public ) glance into the mirror .
Fundamental values , temperament and the way in which one approaches a conviction change less , of course , than specific opinions .
To those of my readers who find many of my opinions morally , or politically , or sociologically antiquated ( and I have reason to know that there are some such ) , I would like to say what I have already hinted , namely , that some of my opinions may indeed be subject to some discount on the simple ground that I am no longer young and therefore incapable of being youthful of mind .
At about the age of twelve I became a Spencerian liberal , and I have always considered myself a liberal of some kind even though the definition has changed repeatedly since Spencer became a reactionary .
Never once during the trying thirties did I come so close to succumbing to the private climate of opinion as to grant Russian communism even that most weasel-worded of encomiums `` an interesting experiment '' .
The favorite excuse of those who have now recanted their approval of communism is that they did not know how things would develop .
Once many years ago I sat at dinner next to Arthur Train , and the subject of The Nation came up .
I never have been , and am not now , any kind of utopian .
Why did I choose to fill these pages in this particular issue with this mixture of rather tenuous reflections and autobiography ? ?
Apropos of what some would call cynicism , I remember an anecdote the source of which I forget .
Without really changing the general subject , I take this opportunity to confess that I am troubled by doubts , not only about pacifism , but also when asked to join in the protest against a law that most of those who consider themselves humane and liberal seem to regard as obviously barbarous ; ;
Punishment of the wrongdoer , so liberals are inclined to say , can have only three possible justifications : revenge , reformation or deterrent example .
For here if anywhere in contemporary literature is a major effort to counterbalance Existentialism and restore some of its former lustre to the tarnished image of the species Man , or , as Malraux himself puts it , `` to make men conscious of the grandeur they ignore in themselves '' .
1 ,
The theme of The Walnut Trees Of Altenburg is most closely related to its immediate predecessor in Malraux's array of novels : Man's Hope ( 1937 ) .
Nothing , however , could be farther from the truth .
It is this larger theme of the `` quality of man '' , a quality that transcends the ideological and flows into `` the human '' , which now forms the pulsating heart of Malraux's artistic universe .
2 ,
Much more important is to grasp the feelings of the narrator ( whose full name is never given ) as he becomes aware of the disorganized and bewildered mass of French prisoners clustered together in a temporary prison camp in and around the cathedral of Chartres .
The intuition about mankind conveyed in these opening pages is of crucial importance for understanding the remainder of the text ; ;
This new vision of man that the narrator acquires is also accompanied by a re-vision of his previous view .
The entire middle section of The Walnut Trees is taken up with the life of Vincent Berger himself , whose fragmentary notes on his `` encounters with mankind '' are now conveyed by his son .
Vincent Berger's mission is a failure because the Ottoman nationalism on which Enver Pasha counted does not exist .
And when Vincent Berger returns to Europe , this first result of his encounters with mankind is considerably enriched and deepened by a crucial revelation .
In a pessimistic assessment of the cold war , Eden declared : `` There must be much closer unity within the West before there can be effective negotiation with the East '' .
While I fully agree with Sir Anthony's contention , I think that we must carry the analysis farther , bearing in mind that while common peril may be the measure of our need , the existence or absence of a positive sense of community must be the measure of our capacity .
While it is hazardous to project the trend of history , it seems clear that a genuine community is painfully emerging in the Western world , particularly among the countries of Western Europe .
The movement toward European unity has been expressed in two currents : federalism and functionalism , one looking to the constitution of a United States of Europe , the other building on wartime precedents of practical cooperation for the solution of specific problems .
Many factors contributed to the growth of the European movement .
In 1947 and 1948 the necessity of massive coordinated efforts to achieve economic recovery led to the formation of the Organization for European Economic Cooperation to supervise and coordinate the uses of American aid under the Marshall Plan .
Another powerful factor in the European movement was the threat of Soviet aggression .
New organs of unification proliferated in the decade following the conclusion of the NATO alliance .
The `` overseas '' democracies have generally encouraged the European unification movement without seriously considering the wisdom of their own full participation in a broader Atlantic community .
If a broader Atlantic community is to be formed -- and my own judgment is that it lies within the realm of both our needs and our capacity -- a ready nucleus of machinery is at hand in the NATO alliance .
The problem of NATO is not one of machinery , of which there is an abundance , but of the will to use it .
An equally promising avenue toward Atlantic community may lie through the development and expansion of the O.E.C.D. .
Underlying these hopes and prescriptions is a conviction that the nations of the North Atlantic area do indeed form a community , at least a potential community .
6 ,
It is for these reasons that proposals for a `` new world order '' , through radical overhaul of the United Nations or through some sort of world federation , are utterly fatuous .
A working concept of the organic evolution of community must lead us in a different direction .
New machinery of coordination should not be our primary objective in the foreseeable future -- though perhaps the `` political general staff '' of Western leaders proposed by Sir Anthony Eden would serve a useful purpose .
Our proper objective , then , is the development of a new spirit , the realization of a potential community .
A realistic `` concert of free nations '' might be expected to consist of an `` inner community '' of the North Atlantic nations and an `` outer community '' embracing much or all of the non-Communist world .
The recent experiments in the new poetry-and-jazz movement seen by some as part of the `` San Francisco Renaissance '' have been as popular as they are notorious .
Under the general heading `` poetry-and-jazz '' widely divergent experiments have been carried out .
But the best known exploiters of the new medium are Kenneth Rexroth and Kenneth Patchen .
Although Patchen has given previous evidence of an interest in jazz , the musical group that he works with , the Chamber Jazz Sextet , is often ignored by jazz critics .
From the beginning of his career , Patchen has adopted an anti-intellectual approach to poetry .
Patchen has almost never used strict poetic forms ; ;
These early experiments were evidently not altogether satisfying to Patchen .
But since 1945 , Sam Spade has undergone a metamorphosis ; ;
It was logical that he would come up with the figure of the modern jazz musician .
Patchen does read some of his earlier works to music , but he has written an entire book of short poems which seem to be especially suited for reading with jazz .
It is difficult to draw the line between stereotype and the reality of the jazz musician .
This involves a shift in Patchen's attitude and it is a first step toward writing a new jazz poetry .
Henry Miller characterized Patchen as a `` man of anger and light '' .
This angry and exasperated stance which Patchen has maintained in his poetry for almost fifteen years has been successfully modulated into a kind of woe that is as effective as anger and still expresses his disapproval of the modern world .
Patchen is repeatedly preoccupied with death .
Lord , love us , look at all the disconnected limbs floating hereabouts , like bloody feathers at that -- and all the eyes are talking and all the hair are moving and all the tongue are in all the cheek .
Let us see just how typical Krim is .
Men of Krim's age , aspirations , and level of sophistication were typically involved in politics before the war .
Closely related to his illusions about his typicality is Krim's complicated feeling about his Jewishness .
Krim says , in short , that he is a suffering Jew .
Krim's main attack is upon the aesthetic and the publishing apparatus of American literary culture in our day .
Through all this raving , Krim is performing a traditional and by now boring rite , the attack on intelligence , upon the largely successful attempt of the magazines he castigates to liberate American writing from local color and other varieties of romantic corn .
The process of cosmopolitanism had begun in earnest about 1912 , but the First War and the depression virtually stalled that process in its tracks .
over , the , country -- .
this moment are being bedazzled by half-digested ideas .
There had been signs and portents like the regular toppling over and defacing of the bust of Lauro Di Bosis near the Villa Lante and in the Gianicolo .
Something was happening all right , slowly it is true , but you could feel it .
We saw Giuseppe Berto at a party once in a while , tall , lean , nervous and handsome , and , in our opinion , the best novelist of them all except Pavese , and Pavese is dead .
Berto seemed worried , too .
So there we were talking around and about it .
We were at a party once and heard an idealistic young European call that awful charge glorious .
`` Oh , it would be butchery all right '' , the European said .
I thought : Who is older now ? ?
The sculptor looked at him , bugeyed and amazed , angry .
`` Bullshit '' , he said softly .
`` Excuse me '' , the European said .
The apartment where we were talking that afternoon in March faced onto the street Garibaldi's men had charged up and along .
The English lady really wanted to put a wreath on the Garibaldi monument on the 30th of April .
It is hard for me to know how I feel about Lauro Di Bosis .
Faced with a gesture like Di Bosis' , I find usually that my sentiments are closer to those of my sculptor friend .
The English lady wanted to pay tribute to Garibaldi and to Lauro Di Bosis , but she wasn't going to be here to do it .
I had some reasons , too .
The English lady was pleased and enthusiastic .
The Office of Business Economics ( OBE ) of the U.S. Department of Commerce provides basic measures of the national economy and current analysis of short-run changes in the economic situation and business outlook .
Technical assistance to small business community
SBA offers Administrative Management Courses , which are designed to improve the management efficiency and `` know-how '' of small business concerns within a community .
Through the SBA's Management Counseling Program , practical , personalized advice on sound management principles is available upon request to both prospective and established businessmen in a community .
SBA serves also as a clearing house for information on products and processes particularly adaptable for exploitation by small firms .
SBA works closely with the principal property disposal installations of the Federal Government in reviewing proposed sales programs and identifying those types of property that small business concerns are most likely to be interested in purchasing .
Loans
As a source of investment capital , the system is beneficial to local communities and encourages the development of industries in rural areas .
Minerals exploration
In most of the less developed countries , however , such programing is at best inadequate and at worst nonexistent .
Others have so-called development plans , but some of these are little more than lists of projects collected from various ministries while others are statements of goals without analysis of the actions required to attain them .
First , we can encourage responsibility by establishing as conditions for assistance on a substantial and sustained scale the definition of objectives and the assessment of costs .
Second , we can make assistance for particular projects conditional on the consistency of such projects with the program .
Third , we can offer technical help in the formulation of programs for development which are adapted to the country's objectives and resources .
In the more primitive areas , where the capacity to absorb and utilize external assistance is limited , some activities may be of such obvious priority that we may decide to support them before a well worked out program is available .
At the other end of the spectrum , where the more advanced countries can be relied upon to make well thought through decisions as to project priorities within a consistent program , we should be prepared to depart substantially from detailed project approval as the basis for granting assistance and to move toward long-term support , in cooperation with other developed countries , of the essential foreign exchange requirements of the country's development program .
D .
This includes not only development programing , but also establishing tax policies designed to raise equitably resources for investment ; ;
This includes foreseeing balance-of-payments crises , with adequate attention to reducing dependence on imports and adopting realistic exchange rates to encourage infant industries and spur exports .
For both economic and political reasons all segments of the population must be able to share in the growth of a country .
In many societies , what we regard as corruption , favoritism , and personal influence are so accepted as consistent with the mores of officialdom and so integral a part of routine administrative practice that any attempt to force their elimination will be regarded by the local leadership as not only unwarranted but unfriendly .
In many instances it can withhold or limit its aid to countries not yet willing to make such efforts .
There are other countries where , with skillful diplomacy , we may be able by our aid to give encouragement to those groups in government which would like to press forward with economic and social reform measures to promote growth .
But there will be still other countries where , despite the inadequacy of the level of self-help , we shall deem it wise , for political or military reasons , to give substantial economic assistance .
E .
Many of the individual projects for which development assistance is required call for expenditures over lengthy periods .
More importantly , several of the more advanced of the less developed countries have found through experience that they must plan their own complex investment programs for at least 5 years forward and tentatively for considerably more than that if they are to be sure that the various interdependent activities involved are all to take place in the proper sequence .
Most important of all , the less developed countries must be persuaded to take the necessary steps to allocate and commit their own resources .
You have heard him tell these young people that during his almost 50 years of service in the Congress he has seen the Kaisers and the Hitlers and the Mussolinis , the Tojos and Stalins and Khrushchevs , come and go and that we are passing on to them the freest Nation that mankind has ever known .
So , I say , Mr. Speaker , God bless you and keep you for many years not only for this body but for the United States of America and the free world .
General leave to extend
Mr. Speaker , I ask unanimous consent that all Members who desire to do so may extend their remarks at this point in the record ; ;
Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from Massachusetts ? ?
There was no objection .
Remarks of Hon. Joseph P. Addabbo of New York
It is notably significant that so many Members from both sides of the aisle express their respect and admiration for our beloved Speaker , the Honorable Sam Rayburn .
In this my first year as a Member of this body I have experienced many memorable moments .
In my short period here I believe that at no time has he been otherwise than the most popular man on both sides of the aisle .
I am highly privileged today to commemorate the brilliant career of this parliamentary giant .
Remarks of Hon. Wayne L. Hays of Ohio
It is a matter of deep personal satisfaction for me to add my voice to the great and distinguished chorus of my colleagues in this paean of praise , respect , and affection for Speaker Sam Rayburn .
Here briefly in this humble tribute I have sought for some simple and succinct summation that would define the immense service of this patriot to his country .
For Sam Rayburn never forgot Bonham , his home community , and he never forgot Texas .
More than that , Sam Rayburn is the very living symbol of an iron-clad integrity so powerful in his nature and so constantly demonstrated that he can count some of his best friends in the opposition .
It is , I insist , hard to define the Rayburn contribution to our political civilization because it is so massive and so widespread and so complicated , and because it goes so deep .
Remarks of Hon. Melvin Price of Illinois
All but two of my nine terms in the House of Representatives has been served under the Speakership of Sam Rayburn .
And Sam Rayburn is a great man -- one who will go down in American history as a truly great leader of the Nation .
I pay my personal tribute to Sam Rayburn , stalwart Texan and great American , not only because today he establishes a record of having served as Speaker of the House of Representatives more than twice as long as Henry Clay , but because of the contributions he has made to the welfare of the people of the Nation during his almost half century of service as a Member of Congress .
Speaker Rayburn has not limited his leadership as a statesman to his direction of the House in the Speaker's chair .
No greater pleasure has come to me in my own service in this House than to be present today to participate in this tribute to this great Speaker , this great legislator , this great Texan , this great American .
My sincere wish is that he continues to add to this record he sets here today .
Remarks of Hon. John S. Monagan of Connecticut
Sam Rayburn is one of the greatest American public figures in the history of our country and I consider that I have been singly honored in the privilege of knowing Sam Rayburn and sharing with him the rights and obligations of a Member of the House of Representatives in the Congress of the United States .
Others may speak of Speaker Rayburn's uniquely long and devoted service ; ;
I prefer to speak , however , of Sam Rayburn , the person , rather than Sam Rayburn , the American institution .
Although Sam Rayburn affects a gruff exterior in many instances , nevertheless he is fundamentally a man of warm heart and gentle disposition .
Above all , he is a person to whom a fledgling Representative can go to discuss the personal and professional problems which inevitably confront a new Congressman .
On September 16 , Sam Rayburn will have served as Speaker twice as long as any predecessor and I am proud to join with others in marking this date , and in expressing my esteem for that notable American , Sam Rayburn .
Origin of state automobile practices .
The practice of state-owned vehicles for use of employees on business dates back over forty years .
The state presently owns 389 passenger vehicles in comparison to approximately 200 in 1940 .
The automobile maintenance unit , or motor pool , came into existence in 1942 and has been responsible for centralized maintenance and management of state-owned transportation since that time .
The motor pool has made exceptional progress in automotive management including establishment of cost billing systems , records keeping , analyses of vehicle use , and effecting economies in vehicle operation .
Purchase of state vehicles is handled similarly to all state purchases .
The legislature's role in policy determination concerning state-owned vehicles has been confined almost exclusively to appropriating funds for vehicles .
The meaningful policies governing the purchase , assignment , use and management of state vehicles have been shaped by the state's administrative officers .
Meaningful policies include : ( A ) kinds of cars the state should own , ( B ) when cars should be traded , ( C ) the need and assignment of vehicles , ( D ) use of cars in lieu of mileage allowances , ( E ) employees taking cars home , and ( F ) need for liability insurance on state automobiles .
A review of these policies indicates : ( 1 )
A survey of practices and/or policies in other states concerning assignment and use of state automobiles reveals several points for comparison with Rhode Island's practices .
Forty-seven states assign or provide vehicles for employees on state business .
States which provide automobiles for employees assign them variously to the agency , the individual , or to a central pool .
Twenty-six states operate a central motor pool for acquisition , allocation and/or maintenance of state-owned vehicles .
Nineteen states report laws , policies or regulations for assigning state vehicles in lieu of paying mileage allowances .
Mileage allowances for state employees are of two types : ( A ) actual mileage and ( B ) fixed monthly allowances .
Actual mileage allowances are itemized reimbursements allowed employees for the use of personally-owned vehicles on state business at the rate of $.07 per mile .
Rhode Island's reimburseable rate of $.07 per mile for use of personally-owned cars compares favorably with other states' rates .
Rhode Island's rate of $.07 per mile is considerably lower than reimburseable rates in the federal government and in industry nationally which approximate a $.09 per mile average .
Actual mileage allowances are well-administered and not unduly expensive for the state .
Fixed monthly allowances are a controversial subject .
Travel allowances , including subsistence , have been revised by administrative officials recently and compare favorably with other states' allowances .
Origin of state automobile practices
It is difficult to pinpoint the time of origin of the state purchasing automobiles for use of employees in Rhode Island .
The best reason that can be advanced for the state adopting the practice was the advent of expanded highway construction during the 1920s and '30s .
Once the principle was established , the increase in state-owned vehicles came rapidly .
While the origin of state-owned automobiles may be obscured , subsequent developments concerning the assignment , use , and management of state automobiles can be related more clearly .
Under this new management considerable progress appears to have been made .
In order to further refine the management of passenger vehicles , on July 1 , 1958 , the actual title to every vehicle was transferred , by Executive Order , to the Division of Methods , Research and Office Services .
The motor pool is a completely centralized and mechanized operation .
One matter of concern to the complete effectiveness of pool operations is the lack of adequate central garage facilities .
The purchase of state-owned vehicles is handled in the same manner as all other purchases of the state .
In that ownership of all vehicles rests with the state motor pool , cars are paid for with funds appropriated to the agencies but transferred to the rotary fund mentioned earlier .
Vehicle purchase , assignment , and use policies
The Rhode Island property tax
Since that time the demands of the citizens for new and expanded services have placed financial burdens on the state which could not have been foreseen in earlier years .
This financial assistance from the state has become necessary because the local governments themselves found the property tax , or at least at the rates then existing , insufficient for their requirements .
Consequently there have developed several forms of grants-in-aid and shared taxes , as well as the unrestricted grant to local governments for general purposes whose adoption accompanied the introduction of a sales tax at the state level .
Notwithstanding state aid , the local governments are continuing to seek additional revenue of their own by strengthening the property tax .
Taxation of tangible movable property in Rhode Island has been generally of a `` hands off '' nature due possibly to several reasons : ( 1 ) local assessors , in the main , are not well paid and have inadequate office staffs , ( 2 ) the numerous categories of this component of personal property make locating extremely difficult , and ( 3 ) the inexperience of the majority of assessors in evaluating this type of property .
Among the many problems in the taxing of personal property , and of movable tangible property in particular , two are significant : ( 1 ) situs , ( 2 ) fair and equitable assessment of value .
Although the laws of the various states , in general , specify the situs of property , i.e. , residence or domicile of the owner , or location of the property , the exceptions regarding boats , airplanes , mobile homes , etc. , seem to add to the uncertainty of the proper origination point for assessment .
Rhode Island law specifies that all real estate is taxable in the town in which it is situated .
Intangible property is taxable wherever the owner has a place of abode the greater portion of the year .
Both boats and aircraft would fall within this category , as well as motor vehicles .
A recent example of this problem is the flying of six airplanes , on December 31 , 1960 , from the Newport Airpark in Middletown , to the North Central Airport in Smithfield .
The Smithfield tax assessor , in turn , claims the tax under the provision of law `` and all other tangible personal property situated or being in any town , in or upon any place of storage shall be taxed to such person in the town where said property is situated '' .
This problem of fair and equitable assessment of value is a difficult one to solve in that the determination of fair valuation is dependent on local assessors , who in general are non-professional and part-time personnel taking an individualistic approach to the problem .
This condition will undoubtedly continue until such time as a state uniform system of evaluation is established , or through mutual agreement of the local assessing officials for a method of standard assessment practice to be adopted .
The Rhode Island Public Expenditure Council in its publication once commented : ``
The most realistic way of facing up to this problem would be to have the State take over full responsibility for assessing all taxable property .
The Institute of Public Administration , in its report to the State Fiscal Study Commission in 1959 , recommended `` consolidating and centralizing all aspects of property tax administration in a single state agency professionally organized and equipped for the job '' .
To determine the practice and attitude of municipal governments concerning tangible movable property , a questionnaire was sent to all local government assessors or boards of assessors in Rhode Island .
The replies from each individual town are not given in detail because the questions asked the personal opinion of the several assessors and are not necessarily the established policy of the town in each case .
In reply to a question of whether they now tax boats , airplanes and other movable property excluding automobiles , nineteen said that they did and twenty that they did not .
It is difficult to tabulate exactly what was meant in each individual situation , but the conclusion may be drawn that 21 towns do not assess movable personal property , and of the remainder only certain types are valued for tax purposes .
So few answered the question relating to their efforts to assess movable property that the results are inconclusive .
Of greater interest is a question as to whether movable property was assessed according to its location or ownership .
Twenty-seven assessors stated that they were in favor of improved means for assessing movable personal property , and only five were opposed .
Another question that was asked of the assessors was whether they favored the assessment of movable property at its location or at the residence of the owner .
To summarize , it may be said that there is no one prevailing practice in Rhode Island with respect to the taxation of movable property , that assessors would like to see an improvement , and of those who have an opinion , that assessment by the town of location is preferred on the basis of their present knowledge .
Boats as personal property
Interest has been shown for a number of years by local assessors in the possibility of taxing boats .
It has been obvious to the assessors , particularly those in shore communities , that boats comprise the largest category of tangible personal property which they have been unable to reach .
It has been estimated that the value of boats in Rhode Island waters is something in excess of fifty million dollars , excluding commercial boats .
It is known that at least five towns ( Barrington , Bristol , Narragansett , Newport and Westerly ) place some value on some boats for tax purposes .
No one really knows how many boats there actually are or what their aggregate value may be .
The assessors' association , meeting at Narragansett in September 1960 , devoted its session to a discussion of the boat problem .
Local industry's investment in Rhode Island was the big story in 1960's industrial development effort .
What made these new location figures particularly impressive was the fact that although 1960 was a year of mild business recession throughout the nation , Rhode Island scored marked progress in new industry , new plants , and new jobs .
Of the major expansions in 1960 , three were financed under the R. I. Industrial Building Authority's 100% guaranteed mortgage plan : Collyer Wire , Leesona Corporation , and American Tube & Controls .
Expansion and relocation of industry in Rhode Island is the direct responsibility of the Development Council's Industrial Division , and the figures quoted above indicate a successful year's operation .
A primary function is the operation of a Government Bid Center , which receives bids daily from the Federal Government's principal purchasing agencies .
In addition , the Office's domestic trade program provided consultant services to those seeking information on establishment of new businesses ; ;
The Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce is also active in the field of international trade , assisting Rhode Island firms in developing and enlarging markets abroad .
During the year 1960 , this office supplied 954 visitors with information related to foreign and domestic commerce , and made 73 field visits .
To reach a still greater audience of location-minded manufacturers , our industrial advertising budget for the fiscal year was increased from $32,000 to $40,000 , and the Industrial Building Authority's financial participation was upped from $17,000 to $20,000 .
Newspaper advertising was mainly concentrated in the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal ( Eastern and Midwestern editions ) which averaged two prominent ads per month , and to a lesser degree the New York Herald Tribune and , for the west coast , the Los Angeles Times and the Wall Street Journal ( Pacific Coast edition ) .
The direct mail campaign consisted of 3 intra-state mailings of 1680 letters each and 6 out-of-state directed to electronics , plastics , pharmaceutical , and business machine manufacturers , and to publishers .
The 1960 advertising campaign brought a total of 239 inquiries ; ;
Out of a total of 603 calls , 452 contacts were established with top executive personnel .
On October 8th of last year , the Industrial Division sponsored the Governor's Conference on Industrial Development at the former Henry Barnard School .
Morning sessions included addresses by Ward Miller , Jr. of the U. S. Dept. of Commerce .
In connection with this conference , a 64-page supplement was published in the October 2nd edition of The Providence Sunday Journal .
The Industrial Division published , in 1960 , a new , attractive industrial brochure , `` Rhode Island -- Right For Industry '' , and prepared copy for a new edition of the Directory Of Manufacturers ( to be printed shortly ) , and for a new space catalogue .
Additional promotional activities included organizing the dedication program for Operation Turnkey , the new automated post office , and a conference with representatives of Brown University , Providence College , and University of Rhode Island , and eight electronics concerns regarding the inauguration of a training program for electronics personnel .
Planning division
Two years ago , the Institute of Public Administration issued an extremely comprehensive report entitled `` State-Local Relations In Metropolitan Rhode Island .
Functionally the planning division carries out four activities : long-range state planning , current state planning , local planning assistance ; ;
The urban land use study carried out by the planning division staff has consisted of identifying and mapping all urban land uses which are of significance to statewide planning .
Special districts in Rhode island .
It is not within the scope of this report to elaborate in any great detail upon special districts in Rhode Island .
There are forty-seven special district governments in Rhode Island ( excluding two regional school districts , four housing authorities , and the Kent County Water Authority ) .
Fiscal years in other states
A review of practices in other states regarding fiscal uniformity is pertinent to this report .
Forty-six states , including Rhode Island , end their fiscal year on June 30 .
In sixteen states , the fiscal year ending of the cities ( June 30 ) is the same as that of the state : Alaska , Arizona , California , Delaware , Massachusetts , Montana , Nevada , New Mexico , North Carolina , North Dakota , Oklahoma , Oregon , Vermont , West Virginia , Wyoming , and Hawaii ) .
In eleven states , the fiscal year of the cities ends on December 31 , while the state fiscal year ends on June 30 ( Arkansas , Colorado , Indiana , Kansas , New Hampshire , New Jersey , Ohio , South Dakota , Utah , Washington , and Wisconsin ) .
In eight states whose fiscal years close on June 30 , a majority of their cities close their fiscal year on December 31 : :
One state , Alabama , closes its fiscal year on September 30 , and all cities in the state , with one exception , also close fiscal years on September 30 .
Mississippi closes its fiscal year on June 30 , while all of its cities close their fiscal years on September 30 .
Pennsylvania closes its fiscal year on May 31 .
The remaining twelve states have varying fiscal years for the state , city and local governments .
Fiscal uniformity : advantages and disadvantages
An excellent summary of advantages concerning the uniform fiscal year and coordinated fiscal calendars was contained in a paper presented by a public finance authority recently .
The uniform fiscal year requires compliance with common sense administration of local finances : adoption of the budget , or financial plan , in advance of spending .
The uniform fiscal year ensures conformance with another common sense rule , that of having cash in the bank before checks are drawn .
The uniform fiscal year promotes more careful budgeting and strengthens control over expenditures .
The uniform fiscal year brings the town's fiscal year into line with that of the schools , which expend the largest share of local disbursements .
The uniform fiscal year eliminates interest charges on money borrowed in the form of tax anticipation notes .
The uniform fiscal year facilitates inter-town comparison of revenues and expenditures .
Of all advantages , probably none is more important than the elimination of tax anticipation notes .
It should be noted that there are other and equally important reasons for establishing meaningful intergovernmental reporting bases on a uniform fiscal year .
It has been said that when local government revenues were mostly produced locally from the property tax , the lack of a uniform fiscal year was no great handicap ; ;
Although there are many sound reasons for adopting uniform and coordinated fiscal years in Rhode Island , there are also certain difficulties encountered .
Little can be done about the changing of dates .
The other problem is the matter of financing the transition period in the several cities and towns .
Adjusting the fiscal calendars
Twelve cities and towns in Rhode Island presently indicate some plans to establish a uniform and/or coordinated fiscal tax year calendar .
An analysis of the fiscal tax collection year calendars throughout the state indicates that transition may not be as painful as is commonly thought .
The adjustments needed to establish a uniform and coordinated fiscal tax collection year calendar throughout Rhode Island , based on a July 1 to June 30 year , are shown below .
Six cities and towns are presently on a July 1 to June 30 fiscal year and have coordinated their tax collection year with it .
One town and one city , Coventry and East Providence , require an adjustment of their fiscal year only .
Six cities and towns are now on a July 1 to June 30 fiscal year and will need only to adjust their tax collection year calendar to establish uniformity .
Two cities to be considered , Providence and Cranston , are an enigma .
The adjustment to a uniform and coordinated fiscal period could be accomplished relatively easily for them .
The remaining twenty-three towns have fiscal years which end prior to June 30 .
Methods of financing adjustments
As shown earlier in Table 1 , the several cities and towns use widely varied fiscal and tax collection calendars .
The financial problem , where it exists , usually stems from the adoption of a budget for the transitional or adjustment period .
Rhode Island Heritage Week proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , governor
As this year marks the centennial of the beginning of the Civil War , this fact is being commemorated with several exhibits throughout the State , but most of all paying tribute to the first Rhode Island Volunteers who rushed to the defense of the City of Washington , putting at the disposal of President Lincoln the only fully equipped and best trained regiment at this time .
On April 30 , ceremonies commemorating the departure of these volunteers will take place at 1:00 P.M. at the Dexter Training Grounds in Providence .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 21st day of April , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one and on Independence , the one hundred and eighty-fifth .
Governor
Armed Forces Day Proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor
National defense , like the continuing search for peace with freedom and justice for all , is `` everybody's business '' .
It is a sound investment .
Armed Forces Day is the annual report on this investment , a public presentation designed to give our own people , and the people of other lands who stand with us for peace with freedom and justice , the best possible opportunity to see and understand what we have and why we have it .
It is the purpose of Armed Forces Day to give Americans an opportunity to honor men of the Armed Forces , those who have made the supreme sacrifice , those who remain to preserve our security .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 17th day of May , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth .
Governor
National Maritime Day proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor
This date in 1819 marked the sailing of the S. S. `` Savannah '' from Savannah , Georgia , for Liverpool .
The Merchant Marine is the `` Fourth Arm of Defense '' , for a strong and effective American Merchant Marine is essential to the economy and security of our Nation .
Through trade and travel across the seas the American Merchant Marine is carrying out its historic mission of linking the United States of America with friendly nations across the seas ; ;
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 20th day of April , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-fifth .
Governor
Miss Rhode Island Pageant Week proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor
Many hours are given free by the Jaycees to make this and all local pageants outstanding events .
Miss Sally May Saabye , ( Miss Rhode Island 1960 ) says that within a short time -- on June 17th -- her reign will come to an end .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 11th day of June , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth .
Governor
United Nations Day proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , governor
The United Nations Charter sets forth standards which , if adhered to , will promote peace and justice throughout the world .
The world desperately needs the United Nations .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 5th day of July , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth .
Governor
The State Ballet of Rhode Island Week proclamation by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor
The State Ballet of Rhode Island , the first incorporated group , was formed for the purpose of extending knowledge of the art of ballet in the Community , to promote interest in ballet performances , to contribute to the cultural life of the State , and to provide opportunity for gifted dance students who , for one reason or another , are unable to pursue a career and to develop others for the professional state ; ;
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 23d day of October , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth .
Governor
Proclamation Thanksgiving Day by John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor
The Pilgrims gathered to thank the Lord for His benevolence during their first year in the new land .
We who are living today may learn a valuable lesson from those who celebrated the first Thanksgiving Day .
And so , let us remember on this day not only to thank the Almighty Who gave hope and courage to the Pilgrims , but also to place our trust in Him that He will continue to protect us in the future as He has in the past .
In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 21st day of November , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth .
Governor
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Act of July 3 , 1952 ( 66 Stat. 328 ) as amended ( 42 U.S.C. 1952-1958 ) , is further amended to read as follows : Section 1 .
In view of the increasing shortage of usable surface and ground water in many parts of the Nation and the importance of finding new sources of supply to meet its present and future water needs , it is the policy of the Congress to provide for the development of practicable low-cost means for the large-scale production of water of a quality suitable for municipal , industrial , agricultural , and other beneficial consumptive uses from saline water , and for studies and research related thereto .
In order to accomplish the purposes of this Act , the Secretary of the Interior shall -- ( A )
In carrying out his functions under Section 2 of this Act , the Secretary may -- ( A )
The Secretary shall make reports to the President and the Congress at the beginning of each regular session of the action taken or instituted by him under the provisions of this Act and of prospective action during the ensuing year .
The Secretary of the Interior may issue rules and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this Act .
There are authorized to be appropriated such sums , to remain available until expended , as may be necessary , but not more than $75,000,000 in all , ( A ) to carry out the provisions of this Act during the fiscal years 1962 to 1967 , inclusive ; ;
Section 4 of the joint resolution of September 2 , 1958 ( 72 Stat. 1707 ; ;
The authority of the Secretary of the Interior under this joint resolution to construct , operate , and maintain demonstration plants shall terminate upon the expiration of twelve years after the date on which this joint resolution is approved .
Approved September 22 , 1961 .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to make or cause to be made a study covering -- ( 1 )
The Secretary of the Interior shall submit a report of his findings , together with recommendations for an effective safety program for metal and nonmetallic mines ( excluding coal and lignite mines ) based upon such findings , to the Congress not more than two years after the date of enactment of this Act .
Approved September 26 , 1961 .
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to establish and maintain a program of stabilization payments to small domestic producers of lead and zinc ores and concentrates in order to stabilize the mining of lead and zinc by small domestic producers on public , Indian , and other lands as provided in this Act .
In the same period , 431 presentations by members of the staff were made to local , national , and international medical groups .
The education function of the Institute is carried on by the staff in the departments of pathology and its consultants .
During fiscal years 1959 and 1960 , there were 139 military and civilian students who came to the Institute for varying periods of special instruction .
During the period from 1 July 1960 through 31 January 1961 , additional research affiliations were effected with the U. S. Army Medical Research and Development Command to conduct research in procedures for quantitative electron microscopy , and for the study of biophysical and biological studies of the structure and function of ocular tissue .
The Medical Illustration Service is responsible for the collection , publication , exhibition , and file of medical illustration material of medico-military importance to the Armed Forces .
During this period , a total of 762 exhibits were presented at 442 medical and scientific meetings .
Visual and operable training aids developed by the Medical Illustration Service , were used in support of Army Medical Service mass casualty exercises .
In support of the emphasis placed by the Department of Defense on instruction in emergency medical care , the Medical Illustration Service developed casualty simulation kits and rescue breathing manikins which are being field tested ; ;
Nine veterinary lantern slide teaching sets were developed and distributed , and lantern slide teaching sets on 21 pathology subjects were added to the loan library of the Medical Illustration Service .
Six fascicles ( 10,000 copies each ) of the `` Atlas Of Tumor Pathology '' were completed during the period of this report .
In this same period , six new fascicles of the Atlas Of Tumor Pathology were published and distributed to medical centers world-wide .
A three-dimensional exhibit depicting `` A Century Of Naval Medicine '' was formally presented to The Director by George S. Squibb , great-grandson of the founder of E. R. Squibb and Sons , for permanent display in the Museum .
Space was provided for short-time guest medical exhibits , and the Museum collected new accessions of microscopes , medical , surgical , and diagnostic instruments , uniform , and similar items of historical medico-military significance .
During the period , the laboratory rendered centralized macropathological service to qualified requesters .
Three hundred five copies of the Manual Of Macropathological Techniques were distributed .
During fiscal years 1959 and 1960 , there were 795,586 visitors to the Museum .
During the period from 1 July 1960 through 31 January 1961 , the Medical Museum was required to move to Temporary Building `` S '' on the Mall from Chase Hall .
Armed Forces Medical Publication Agency
From 1 July 1958 to 30 June 1960 , 24 numbers of the Journal and nine of the Bulletin were published .
Beginning with the October 1959 issue of the Journal , the method of production of copy for photo-offset reproduction was changed from varityping to hot typesetting .
Two special issues were published , one for November 1959 on Space Medicine , the other the Tenth Anniversary issue for January 1960 .
The Armed Forces Epidemiological Board agreed to submit each month a report for one of its 12 commissions , so that each commission will report once a year on some phase of its work calculated to be of particular interest and value to medical officers of the Armed Forces .
Another recent achievement was the successful development of a method for the complete combustion in a bomb calorimeter of a metal in fluorine when the product is relatively non-volatile .
The development and testing of new apparatus to measure other properties is nearing completion .
A high-speed shutter has been developed in order to permit photographic observation of any portion of the electrical wire explosion .
Besides the well-known hydrogen line at 21 cm wavelength , the spectra of extraterrestrial radio sources may contain sharp lines characteristic of other atoms , ions , and small molecules .
High sensitivity in radio telescopes is achieved by reducing the bandwidth of the receiver ; ;
The first diatomic hydride investigated by the paramagnetic resonance method was the OH radical .
The Bureau is pursuing an active program to provide a temperature scale and thermometer calibration services in the range 1.5 to 20 Af .
An acoustical interferometer has been constructed and used , with helium gas as the thermometric fluid , to measure temperatures near 4.2 and 2.1 Af .
Carbon resistors and impurity-doped germanium resistors have been investigated for use as precision secondary thermometers in the liquid helium temperature region .
The reproducibilities of helium vapor-pressure thermometers have been investigated in conjunction with a `` constant temperature '' liquid helium bath from 4.2 to 1.8 Af .
Precise pressure-volume-temperature measurements on corrosive gases are dependent on a sensitive yet rugged pressure transducer .
A 6-year study of the transport properties of air at elevated temperatures has been completed .
In March , 1961 , representatives of the national laboratories of Australia , Canada , The Netherlands , United Kingdom , U.S.S.R. , United States , and West Germany , met at the NBS to devise means for reaching international agreement on a temperature scale between 10 and 90 Af .
During the last week of march 1961 , Columbus , Ohio was the site of the Fourth Symposium on Temperature , Its Measurement And Control In Science And Industry .
2.1.6 .
Transition probabilities .
Under the sponsorship of the Office of Naval Research and the Advanced Research Projects Agency , a data center was established to gather and index all published information on atomic transition probabilities .
A wall-stabilized high-current arc source was constructed and used to study transition probabilities of atomic hydrogen and oxygen .
A set of tables containing spectral intensities for 39,000 lines of 70 elements , as observed in a copper matrix in a d-c arc , was completed and published .
Research continues on the very complex spectra of the rare earth elements .
( E )
The Commission shall , as soon as possible , and in the order of the making of such awards , certify to the Secretary of the Treasury and to the Secretary of State copies of the awards made in favor of the Government of the United States or of nationals of the United States under this Title .
The Commission shall complete its affairs in connection with settlement of United States-Yugoslav claims arising under the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 not later than December 31 , 1954 : :
There is hereby authorized to be appropriated , out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated , such sums as may be necessary to enable the Commission to carry out its functions under this Title .
Mr. Dooley .
Mr. Speaker , for several years now the commuter railroads serving our large metropolitan areas have found it increasingly difficult to render the kind of service our expanding population wants and is entitled to have .
There have been a number of sound plans proposed .
At this time of crisis in our Nation's commuter railroads , a new threat to the continued operations of the New York Central has appeared in the form of the Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad's proposal for control of the Baltimore & Ohio railroads .
The New York Central has pointed out that this control , if approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission , would give the combined C. & O. - B. & O. Railroad a total of 185 points served in common with the New York Central .
The New York Central notes : ``
The freight traffic most susceptible to raiding by the C. & O. - B. & O. provides the backbone of Central's revenues .
The New York Central today handles 60 percent of all southbound commuter traffic coming into New York City .
There is a workable alternative to this potentially dangerous and harmful C. & O. - B. & O. merger scheme '' --
The Central has pointed out .
The logic of creating a strong , balanced , competitive two-system railroad service in the East is so obvious that B. & O. was publicly committed to the approach outlined here .
Detailed studies of the plan were well underway .
Then , abandoning the studies in the face of their promising outlook for all concerned , B. & O. entered on-again-off-again negotiations with C. & O. which resulted in the present situation .
In the light of the facts at hand , however , New York Central intends to pursue the objective of helping to create a healthy two-system eastern railroad structure in the public interest '' .
The Interstate Commerce Commission will commence its deliberations on the proposed C. & O. - B. & O. merger on June 18 .
However , there is a more profound consideration to this proposed merger than profit and loss .
For the past 40 years Congress has advocated a carefully planned , balanced and competitive railway system .
Mr. Speaker , I rise today to pay tribute to a great newspaper , the New York Times , on the occasion of a major change in its top executive command .
Arthur Hays Sulzberger has been a distinguished publisher of this distinguished newspaper and it is fitting that we take due notice of his major contribution to American journalism on the occasion of his retirement .
Mr. Sulzberger's successor as publisher is Mr. Orvil E. Dryfoos , who is president of the New York Times Co. , and who has been with the Times since 1942 .
I am also pleased to note that Mr. John B. Oakes , a member of the Times staff since 1946 , has been appointed as editorial page editor .
I should like at this time , Mr. Speaker , to pay warm tribute to Arthur Hays Sulzberger and Charles Merz on the occasion of their retirement from distinguished careers in American journalism .
My heartiest congratulations go to their successors , Orvil E. Dryfoos and John B. Oakes , who can be counted upon to sustain the illustrious tradition of the New York Times .
The people of the 17th District of New York , and I as their Representative in Congress , take great pride in the New York Times as one of the great and authoritative newspapers of the world .
Mr. Speaker , in my latest newsletter to my constituents I urged the imposition of a naval blockade of Cuba as the only effective method of preventing continued Soviet armaments from coming into the Western Hemisphere in violation of the Monroe Doctrine .
Under leave to extend my remarks , I include the relevant portion of my newsletter , together with the text of the article from the U.S. News & World Report : `` your Congressman , Samuel S. Stratton , reports from Washington , May 1 , 1961
In fact , one of the major reasons for the failure of the ill-starred expedition appears to have been a lack of full information on the extent to which Cuba has been getting this Russian military equipment .
Once the full extent of this Russian military penetration of Cuba was clear , President Kennedy announced we would take whatever action was appropriate to prevent this , even if we had to go it alone .
What the next move will be only time , of course , will tell .
( from U.s. News & World Report , May 8 , 1961 )
Look at Castro now -- cockier than ever with arms and agents to threaten the Americas .
How can the United States act ? ?
Blockade is one answer offered by experts .
This is the question now facing President Kennedy : How to put a stop to the Soviet buildup in Cuba and to Communist infiltration of this hemisphere ? ?
On April 25 , the White House reported that a total embargo of remaining U.S. trade with Cuba was being considered .
Another strategy -- bolder and tougher -- was also attracting notice in Washington : a naval and air blockade to cut Cuba off from the world , destroy Castro .
Blockade , in the view of military and civilian experts , could restore teeth to the Monroe Doctrine .
It is the strategy of blockade , therefore , that is suddenly at the center of attention of administration officials , Members of Congress , officers in the Pentagon .
Military experts say a tight naval blockade off Cuban ports and at the approaches to Cuban waters would require two naval task forces , each built around an aircraft carrier with a complement of about 100 planes and several destroyers .
The Navy , on April 25 , announced it is bringing back the carrier Shangri-La from the Mediterranean , increasing to four the number of attack carriers in the vicinity of Cuba .
To round out the blockading force , submarines would be needed -- to locate , identify and track approaching vessels .
Three requirements go with a blockade : It must be proclaimed ; ;
Once these conditions of international law are met , countries that try to run the blockade do so at their own risk .
Plenty , say the experts .
Primary target would be shipments of tanks , guns , aviation gasoline and ammunition coming from Russia and Czechoslovakia .
From its inception in 1920 with the passage of Public Law 236 , 66th Congress , the purpose of the vocational rehabilitation program has been to assist the States , by means of grants-in-aid , to return disabled men and women to productive , gainful employment .
Despite the successful rehabilitation of over a half million disabled persons in the first eleven years after 1943 , the existing program was still seen to be inadequate to cope with the nation's backlog of an estimated two million disabled .
Under the law as it existed until 1943 , the Federal Government made grants to the States on the basis of population , matching State expenditures on a 50-50 basis .
The 1954 Amendments completely changed the financing of the vocational rehabilitation program , providing for a three-part grant structure -- for ( 1 ) basic support ; ;
The following table shows , for selected years , the authorizations , appropriations , allotment base , Federal grants to States and State matching funds for this part of the grant program :
method of distributing funds
In order to assist the States in maintaining basic vocational rehabilitation services , Section 2 of the amended Act provides that allotments to States for support of such services be based on ( 1 ) need , as measured by a State's population , and ( 2 ) fiscal capacity , as measured by its per capita income .
The method used in computing the allotments is specifically set forth in the Act .
For each State ( except Puerto Rico , Guam , the Virgin Islands , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) determine average per capita income based on the last three years .
Determine the average per capita income for the U. S. based on the last three years .
Determine the ratio of 50% to the average per capita income of the U. S. ( Divide 50 by the result obtained in item 2 above .
Determine for each State ( except the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) that percentage which bears the same ratio to 50% as the particular State's average per capita income bears to the average per capita income of the U. S. .
Determine the particular State's `` allotment percentage '' .
In all other States it is the difference obtained by subtracting from 100 the result obtained in item 4 above ; ;
Square each State's allotment percentage .
Determine each State's population .
Multiply the population of each State by the square of its allotment percentage .
Determine the sum of the products obtained in item 8 above , for all the States .
Determine the ratio that the amount being allotted is to the sum of the products for all the States .
Determine the particular State's unadjusted allotment for the particular fiscal year .
Determine if the particular State's unadjusted allotment ( result obtained in item 11 above ) is greater than its maximum allotment , and if so lower its unadjusted allotment to its maximum allotment .
Determine if the particular State's unadjusted allotment ( result obtained in item 11 above ) is less than its minimum ( base ) allotment , and if so raise its unadjusted allotment to its minimum allotment .
The funds recouped by reductions in item 12 above are used : first , to increase the unadjusted allotments to the specified minimum in those States where the unadjusted allotment is less than the minimum allotment ( item 13 above ) ; ;
For the States which maintain two separate agencies -- one for the vocational rehabilitation of the blind , and one for the rehabilitation of persons other than the blind -- the Act specifies that their minimum ( base ) allotment shall be divided between the two agencies in the same proportion as it was divided in fiscal year 1954 .
Matching requirements
As is the case with the allotment provisions for support of vocational rehabilitation services , the matching requirements are also based on a statutory formula .
The method used for computing the respective Federal and State shares in total program costs is specifically set forth in the Act .
For each State ( except the Virgin Islands , Guam , Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) , determine the average per capita income for the last three years .
Determine the average per capita income for the United States for the last three years .
Determine the ratio of 40% to the average per capita income of the United States .
Determine for each State ( except the Virgin Islands , Guam , Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) , that percentage which bears the same ration to 40% as the particular State's average per capita income bears to the average per capita income of the United States .
Determine the particular State's `` Federal Share '' .
In all other States it is the difference obtained by subtracting from 100 the result obtained in item 4 above ; ;
At the entrance side of the shelter , each roof beam is rested on the inside 4 inches of the block wall .
The first one or two roof boards ( marked `` E '' in fig. 6 ) are slipped into place across the roof beams , from outside the shelter .
Work on the roof continues in this way .
When the roof blocks are all in place , the final rows of wall blocks are mortared into position .
Solid concrete blocks , relatively heavy and dense , are used for this shelter .
Solid blocks are recommended because hollow blocks would have to be filled with concrete to give effective protection .
Bricks are an alternative .
The illustrations in fig. 8 show how to lay a concrete block wall .
This shelter could be built in regions where water or rock is close to the surface , making it impractical to build an underground shelter .
Two walls of concrete blocks are constructed at least 20 inches apart .
The roof shown here ( fig. 9 ) is a 6-inch slab of reinforced concrete , covered with at least 20 inches of pit-run gravel .
The materials for a double-wall shelter would cost about $700 .
Materials for this shelter would cost about $700 .
The National Lumber Manufacturers Association , Washington , D. C. , is developing plans to utilize specially treated lumber for underground shelter construction .
The illustration ( fig. 11 ) shows this shelter with the roof at ground level and mounded over .
Another type of shelter which gives excellent fallout protection can be built as an added room to the basement of a home under construction .
Important considerations common to each type of shelter are : 1 .
Arrangement of the entrance .
Ventilation .
Radio reception .
Lighting .
The entrance must have at least one right-angle turn .
Ventilation is provided in a concrete block basement shelter by vents in the wall and by the open entrance .
A blower is essential for the double-wall shelter and for the underground shelters .
Radio reception is cut down by the shielding necessary to keep out radiation .
Lighting is an important consideration .
Other considerations .
In these shelters the entrance should be not more than 2 feet wide .
The basement or belowground shelters also will serve for tornado or hurricane protection .
3 .
Therefore , civil defense instructions received over CONELRAD or by other means should be followed .
Your local civil defense will gather its own information and will receive broad information from State and Federal sources .
How long to stay in your shelter ; ;
How soon you may go outdoors ; ;
How long you may stay outside .
You should be prepared to stay in your shelter full time for at least several days and to make it your home for 14 days or longer .
There should be a task for everyone and these tasks should be rotated .
To break the monotony it may be necessary to invent tasks that will keep the family busy .
The survival of the family will depend largely on information received by radio .
Family rationing probably will be necessary .
Blowers should be operated periodically on a regular schedule .
The housekeeping problems of living in a shelter will begin as soon as the shelter is occupied .
After the family has settled in the shelter , the housekeeping rules should be spelled out by the adult in charge .
Sanitation in the confines of the family shelter will require much thought and planning .
Provision for emergency toilet facilities and disposal of human wastes will be an unfamiliar problem .
Water rationing will be difficult and should be planned carefully .
A portable electric heater is advisable for shelters in cold climates .
Open-flame heating or cooking should be avoided .
Some families already have held weekend rehearsals in their home shelters to learn the problems and to determine for themselves what supplies they would need .
4 .
A family dwelling without a basement provides some natural shielding from fallout radiation .
A belowground basement can cut the fallout radiation to one-tenth of the outside level .
If there is time after the warning , the basement shielding could be improved substantially by blocking windows with bricks , dirt , books , magazines , or other heavy material .
5 .
The central area of the ground floor of a heavily constructed apartment building , with concrete floors , should provide more fallout protection than the ordinary basement of a family dwelling .
The Federal Government is aiding local governments in several places to survey residential , commercial and industrial buildings to determine what fallout protection they would provide , and for how many people .
The problem for the city apartment dweller is primarily to plan the use of existing space .
A former Du Pont official became a General Motors vice president and set about maximizing Du Pont's share of the General Motors market .
The fact that sticks out in this voluminous record is that the bulk of Du Pont's production has always supplied the largest part of the requirements of the one customer in the automobile industry connected to Du Pont by a stock interest .
This Court agreed with the trial court `` that considerations of price , quality and service were not overlooked by either Du Pont or General Motors '' .
No corporation engaged in commerce shall acquire , directly or indirectly , the whole or any part of the stock or other share capital of another corporation engaged also in commerce , where the effect of such acquisition may be to substantially lessen competition between the corporation whose stock is so acquired and the corporation making the acquisition , or to restrain such commerce in any section or community , or tend to create a monopoly of any line of commerce .
This section shall not apply to corporations purchasing such stock solely for investment and not using the same by voting or otherwise to bring about , or in attempting to bring about , the substantial lessening of competition .
The purpose of this provision was thus explained in the Court's opinion : ``
Section 7 is designed to arrest in its incipiency not only the substantial lessening of competition from the acquisition by one corporation of the whole or any part of the stock of a competing corporation , but also to arrest in their incipiency restraints or monopolies in a relevant market which , as a reasonable probability , appear at the time of suit likely to result from the acquisition by one corporation of all or any part of the stock of any other corporation .
Thus , a finding of conspiracy to restrain trade or attempt to monopolize was excluded from the Court's decision .
The statutory policy of fostering free competition is obviously furthered when no supplier has an advantage over his competitors from an acquisition of his customer's stock likely to have the effects condemned by the statute .
On the basis of the findings which led to this conclusion , the Court remanded the case to the District Court to determine the appropriate relief .
The judgment must therefore be reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court for a determination , after further hearing , of the equitable relief necessary and appropriate in the public interest to eliminate the effects of the acquisition offensive to the statute .
This brings us to the course of the proceedings in the District Court .
2 .
This Court's judgment was filed in the District Court on July 18 , 1957 .
Counsel for Du Pont indicated a preference for the submission of detailed plans by both sides at an early date .
The Government submitted its proposed decree on October 25 , 1957 .
On motion of the Amici Curiae , the court directed that a ruling be obtained from the Commissioner of Internal Revenue as to the federal income tax consequences of the Government's plan .
Du Pont's counterproposal was filed on May 14 , 1958 .
On June 6 , 1958 , General Motors submitted its objections to the Government's proposal .
The decrees proposed by the amici curiae were filed in August of 1958 .
It is not a medieval mental quirk or an attitude `` unnourished by sense '' to believe that husbands and wives should not be subjected to such a risk , or that such a possibility should not be permitted to endanger the confidentiality of the marriage relationship .
By making inroads in the name of law enforcement into the protection which Congress has afforded to the marriage relationship , the Court today continues in the path charted by the recent decision in Wyatt v. United States , 362 U.S. 525 , where the Court held that , under the circumstances of that case , a wife could be compelled to testify against her husband over her objection .
Haydn C. Covington argued the cause and filed a brief for petitioner .
Daniel M. Friedman argued the cause for the United States .
Mr. Justice Clark delivered the opinion of the Court .
This is a prosecution for refusal to be inducted into the armed services , in violation of the provisions of the Universal Military Training and Service Act , 62 Stat. 604,622 , 50 , U.S.C. App. Aj 462 ( A ) .
Petitioner registered with Local Board No. 9 , Boulder , Colorado , on March 17 , 1952 .
Petitioner first contends that the Department denied him procedural due process by not giving him timely opportunity , before its final recommendation to the appeal board , to answer the statement of the local board as to his claim of devoting 100 hours to actual preaching .
But there are other contentions which might be considered more difficult .
Section 6(j) of the Act , as we have held , does require the Department's recommendation to be placed in a registrant's file .
It is also significant that neither this report nor the hearing officer's notes were furnished to the appeal board .
It appears to us that the same reasoning applies to the production of the hearing officer's report and notes at the trial .
Finally petitioner says that he was entitled to inspect the FBI report during the proceedings before the hearing officer as well as at the trial .
Foreign policy in its total context
I think we need to concern ourselves also with the timeliness of action .
There will of course be times for delay and inaction .
I also hope that we can do something about reducing the infant mortality rate of ideas -- an affliction of all bureaucracies .
Further , I would hope that we could pay attention to little things .
If the Department of State is to take primary responsibility for foreign policy in Washington , it follows that the ambassador is expected to take charge overseas .
The problems of a policy officer
The senior policy officer may be moved to think hard about a problem by any of an infinite variety of stimuli : an idea in his own head , the suggestions of a colleague , a question from the Secretary or the President , a proposal by another department , a communication from a foreign government or an American ambassador abroad , the filing of an item for the agenda of the United Nations or of any other of dozens of international bodies , a news item read at the breakfast table , a question to the President or the Secretary at a news conference , a speech by a Senator or Congressman , an article in a periodical , a resolution from a national organization , a request for assistance from some private American interests abroad , et cetera , ad infinitum .
His first thought is about the question itself : Is there a question here for American foreign policy , and , if so , what is it ? ?
Chewing it over with his colleagues and in his own mind , he reaches a tentative identification of the question -- tentative because it may change as he explores it further and because , if no tolerable answer can be found , it may have to be changed into one which can be answered .
Meanwhile he has been thinking about the facts surrounding the problem , facts which he knows can never be complete , and the general background , much of which has already been lost to history .
He is already beginning to box the compass of alternative lines of action , including doing nothing .
He will not be surprised to find that general principles produce conflicting results in the factual situation with which he is confronted .
He must think of others who have a stake in the question and in its answer .
If action is indicated , what kind of action is relevant to the problem ? ?
Respect for the opinions of mankind
May I add a caution on this particular point ? ?
This is an important consideration .
The problem in the policy officer's mind thus begins to take shape as a galaxy of utterly complicated factors -- political , military , economic , financial , legal , legislative , procedural , administrative -- to be sorted out and handled within a political system which moves by consent in relation to an external environment which cannot be under control .
And the policy officer has the hounds of time snapping at his heels .
While there should be no general age limit or restriction to one sex , there will be particular projects requiring special maturity and some open only to men or to women .
There should be no draft exemption because of Peace Corps service .
Peace Corps volunteers obviously should not be paid what they might earn in comparable activities in the United States .
Rather the principle should be akin to that of the allowance .
For readjustment to the U.S. , volunteers should be given some separation allowance at the end of their overseas service , based on the length of time served .
7 .
The idea of a Peace Corps has captured the imagination of a great many people .
For this , the Peace Corps should be administered by a small , new , alive agency operating as one component in our whole overseas operation .
Pending the reorganization of our foreign aid structure and program , the Peace Corps should be established as an agency in the Department of State .
In this way the Peace Corps can be launched with its own identity and spirit and yet receive the necessary assistance from those now responsible for United States foreign policy and our overseas operations .
8 .
The Peace Corps can either begin in very low gear , with only preparatory work undertaken between now and when Congress finally appropriates special funds for it -- or it can be launched now and in earnest by executive action , with sufficient funds and made available from existing Mutual Security appropriations to permit a number of substantial projects to start this summer .
The Peace Corps should be launched soon so that the opportunity to recruit the most qualified people from this year's graduating classes will not be lost .
If launched in a careful but determined way within the next few weeks , the Peace Corps could have several hundred persons in training this summer for placement next fall .
9 .
In the first year there should probably be considerable emphasis on teaching projects .
There would , however , be a variety of other skills -- medical , agricultural , engineering -- which would be called for in the first year through the private agency programs and through the provision of technician helpers to existing development projects .
The first year's projects should also be spread through several countries in Latin America , Africa and Asia .
10 .
Although the need for outside trained manpower exists in every newly developing nation , the readiness to receive such manpower , or to receive it from the United States will vary from country to country .
It is important , however , that the Peace Corps be advanced not as an arm of the Cold War but as a contribution to the world community .
The Peace Corps is not a diplomatic or propaganda venture but a genuine experiment in international partnership .
11 .
The already appropriated funds within the discretion of the President and Secretary of State under the Mutual Security Act are the only immediately available source of financing this summer's pilot programs of the Peace Corps .
Specifically , Congress should consider authorizing the Peace Corps to receive contributions from American businesses , unions , civic organizations and the public at large .
Steps should also be taken to link the Food for Peace Program with the Peace Corps , so that foreign currencies accumulated by the sale of U.S. surplus food under P.L. 480 can be put to use to pay some of the host country expenses of Peace Corps personnel .
The extent to which participating bodies such as U. S. voluntary agencies , universities , international organizations , and the host country or institutions in the host country can and should share the cost of the Peace Corps programs must be fully explored .
12 .
No matter how well conceived and efficiently run , there probably will be failures .
But as the popular response suggests , the potentiality of the Peace Corps is very great .
With thousands of young Americans going to work in developing areas , millions of Americans will become more directly involved in the world than ever before .
With colleges and universities carrying a large part of the program , and with students looking toward Peace Corps service , there will be an impact on educational curriculum and student seriousness .
The Peace Corps thus can add a new dimension to America's world policy -- one for which people here and abroad have long been waiting .
To the Congress of the United States :
I have today signed an Executive Order establishing a Peace Corps on a temporary pilot basis .
The temporary Peace Corps will be a source of information and experience to aid us in formulating more effective plans for a permanent organization .
Throughout the world the people of the newly developing nations are struggling for economic and social progress which reflects their deepest desires .
One of the greatest obstacles to the achievement of this goal is the lack of trained men and women with the skill to teach the young and assist in the operation of development projects -- men and women with the capacity to cope with the demands of swiftly evolving economics , and with the dedication to put that capacity to work in the villages , the mountains , the towns and the factories of dozens of struggling nations .
The vast task of economic development urgently requires skilled people to do the work of the society -- to help teach in the schools , construct development projects , demonstrate modern methods of sanitation in the villages , and perform a hundred other tasks calling for training and advanced knowledge .
To meet this urgent need for skilled manpower we are proposing the establishment of a Peace Corps -- an organization which will recruit and train American volunteers , sending them abroad to work with the people of other nations .
This organization will differ from existing assistance programs in that its members will supplement technical advisers by offering the specific skills needed by developing nations if they are to put technical advice to work .
Wildlife habitat resources
The wildlife habitat management proposals for the 10-year period are : 1 .
Revise and complete wildlife habitat management and improvement plans for all administrative units , assuring proper coordination between wildlife habitat management and other resources .
Inventory and evaluate wildlife habitat resources in cooperation with other Federal agencies and with the States in which National Forests and Grasslands are located , as a basis for orderly development of wildlife habitat improvement and coordination programs , including ( A ) big-game , gamebird , and small-game habitat surveys and investigations on the 186 million acres of National Forests and Grasslands , ( B ) fishery habitat surveys and investigations on the 81,000 miles of National Forest fishing streams and nearly 3 million acres of lakes and impoundments , and ( C ) participation in planning , inspection , and control phases of all habitat improvement , land and water use projects conducted on National Forest lands by States , other Federal agencies , and private groups to assure that projects will benefit wildlife and be in harmony with other resource values .
Improve food and cover on 1.5 million acres of key wildlife areas .
Develop wildlife openings , food patches , and game ways in dense vegetation by clearing or controlled burning on 400,000 acres .
Improve 7,000 miles of fishing streams and 56,000 acres of lakes by stabilizing banks , planting streamside cover , and constructing channel improvements .
Protection
The loss in growth of sawtimber because of damage by destructive agencies in the United States in 1952 was estimated to be about 44 billion board feet .
These destructive forces also have a seriously adverse effect upon the watersheds and their life-supporting waterflows , and upon the other renewable forest resources .
The long-range objective is to hold the damage from destructive agencies below the level which would seriously interfere with intensive management of the National Forest System under principles of multiple use and high-level sustained yield of products and services .
Intensification of present activities through ( A ) quicker , more extensive , and more thorough surveys to detect incipient outbreaks ; ;
Continuation of present blister rust control work plus extension of control to 250,000 acres not now protected but which should be managed for white pine production .
Initiating a program to control dwarf mistletoe on several hundred thousand acres of selected better stands of young softwood sawtimber on better growing sites .
Coordination of pest control objectives with timber management activities to reduce losses .
Meeting these levels of protection from fire calls for : 1 .
Expansion , modernization , and development of fire control to a proficiency and strength of force which will prevent as many fires as possible and suppress fires before they spread beyond permitted standards .
Adoption and use of new and modern techniques being developed for prevention , for suppression of fires while small , and for stopping large fires while running and burning intensely .
Reduction of hazardous fuel conditions to minimize the chances of large fires developing and spreading to high-value areas .
Roads and trails
In the forest highway system , there are now 24,400 miles of public roads .
In the forest development road and trail system , there are now 162,400 miles of roads and 106,500 miles of supplemental foot and horse trails .
The ultimate trail system will be of value primarily for recreation and wildlife utilization and fire protection .
The presence or lack of access by road or trail has a direct and controlling influence on all phases of forest management and utilization such as : ( A )
The existence of road systems permits an intensity of management and use for all National Forest purposes that is not otherwise possible .
The long-range objective of this Department is to provide and maintain a system of forest development roads and trails which will adequately service the National Forest System at the levels needed to meet expected needs and optimum production of products and services .
Service at these levels of production and utilization will eventually require the construction of about 379,900 miles of new roads and 6,000 miles of new trails , along with the reconstruction to higher standards of about 105,000 miles of roads and 10,500 miles of trails .
Program proposals for forest development roads and trails for the 10-year period 1963-1972 are as follows : 1 .
Complete the construction and reconstruction of about 79,400 miles of multiple-purpose roads and 8,000 miles of trails .
Approximately 40 percent of the value of the work on roads for access to timber which are planned for this period will be constructed by purchasers of National Forest timber , but paid for by the Government through adjustment of stumpage prices .
Provide maintenance to full standards on the 268,900 miles of existing access roads and trails and on the new roads and trails constructed during the period .
Land adjustment , land purchase , land use
Within exterior boundaries of National Forests and National Grasslands , there are about 40,000,000 acres in non-Federal ownership .
The long-range objective is to bring about consolidation of ownership through use of land exchange authority and through purchase on a moderate scale of inholdings which comprise key tracts for recognized National Forest programs such as recreation development , or which are a source of damage to lands in National Forests and National Grasslands .
Strategy and tactics of the U.S. military forces are now undergoing one of the greatest transitions in history .
Forces and military personnel strength .
-- This budget will provide in the fiscal year 1961 for the continued support of our forces at approximately the present level -- a year-end strength of 2,489,000 men and women in the active forces .
If the reserve components are to serve effectively in time of war , their basic organization and objectives must conform to the changing character and missions of the active forces .
Last year the Congress discontinued its previously imposed minimum personnel strength limitations on the Army Reserve .
I again proposed a reduction in the Army National Guard and Army Reserve -- from their present strengths of 400,000 and 300,000 , respectively , to 360,000 and 270,000 by the end of the fiscal year 1961 .
Military personnel costs .
-- About 30% of the expenditures for the Department of Defense in 1961 are for military personnel costs , including pay for active , reserve , and retired military personnel .
Traditionally , rates of pay for retired military personnel have been proportionate to current rates of pay for active personnel .
Operation and maintenance .
-- Expenditures for operating and maintaining the stations and equipment of the Armed Forces are estimated to be $10.3 billion in 1961 , which is $184 million more than in 1960 .
A substantial increase is estimated in the cost of operating additional communications systems in the air defense program , as well as in all programs where speed and security of communications are essential .
Other factors increasing operating costs include the higher unit cost of each flying hour , up 11% in two years , and of each steaming hour , up 15% .
In the budget message for 1959 , and again for 1960 , I recommended immediate repeal of section 601 of the Act of September 28 , 1951 ( 65 Stat. 365 ) .
Basic long-line communications in Alaska are now provided through Federal facilities operated by the Army , Air Force , and Federal Aviation Agency .
Procurement , research , and construction .
-- Approximately 45% of the expenditures for the Department of Defense are for procurement , research , development , and construction programs .
New obligational authority for 1961 recommended in this budget for aircraft procurement ( excluding amounts for related research and construction ) totals $4,753 million , which is $1,390 million below that enacted for 1960 .
The Department of Defense appropriation acts for the past several years have contained a rider which limits competitive bidding by firms in other countries on certain military supply items .
The task of providing a reasonable level of military strength , without endangering other vital aspects of our security , is greatly complicated by the swift pace of scientific progress .
Furthermore , unexpectedly rapid progress or a technological break-through on any one weapon system , in itself , often diminishes the relative importance of other competitive systems .
Another example is the recent cancellation of the F-108 , a long-range interceptor with a speed three times as great as the speed of sound , which was designed for use against manned bombers in the period of the mid-1960's .
The size and scope of other important programs have been reduced from earlier plans .
The impact of technological factors is also illustrated by the history of the high-energy fuel program .
These examples underscore the importance of even more searching evaluations of new major development programs and even more penetrating and far-ranging analyses of the potentialities of future technology .
Strategic forces .
-- The deterrent power of our Armed Forces comes from both their nuclear retaliatory capability and their capability to conduct other essential operations in any form of war .
The Strategic Air Command is the principal element of our long-range nuclear capability .
Thus , the need for the B-70 as a strategic weapon system is doubtful .
I am recommending additional acquisitions of the improved version of the B-52 ( the B-52H with the new turbofan engine ) and procurement of the B-58 supersonic medium bomber , together with the supporting refueling tankers in each case .
In the coming fiscal year additional quantities of Atlas , Titan , and Polaris missiles also will be procured .
Purchase authorizations will include provisions relating to the sale and delivery of commodities , including the classes , types and/or varieties of food grain , the time and circumstances of deposit of the rupees accruing from such sale , and other relevant matters .
The United States recognizes the desire of India to accumulate , as quickly as possible , a substantial part of the one million ton reserve stock of rice provided for in this Agreement to assist in stabilizing the internal markets for this commodity in India .
The two Governments agree that the issuance of purchase authorizations for wheat and rice providing for purchase after June 30 , 1961 , shall be dependent upon the determination by the United States Government that these commodities are in surplus supply and available under Title 1 , of the Act at that time .
Article 2 , uses of rupees
The two Governments agree that the rupees accruing to the Government of the United States of America as a consequence of sales made pursuant to this Agreement will be used by the Government of the United States of America , in such manner and order of priority as the Government of the United States of America shall determine , for the following purposes in the amounts shown : ( A )
In the event that agreement is not reached on the use of the rupees for grant or loan purposes within six years from the date of this Agreement , the Government of the United States of America may use the local currency for any purposes authorized by Section 104 of the Act .
In the event the total of rupees accruing to the Government of the United States of America as a consequence of sales made pursuant to this Agreement is different from the rupee equivalent of $1,276 million , the amounts available for the purposes specified in paragraph 1 , Article 2 , will be adjusted proportionately .
Article 3 , deposit of rupees
Article 4 , general undertakings
The Government of India agrees that it will take all possible measures to prevent the resale or transshipment to other countries or the use for other than domestic purposes ( except where such resale , transshipment or use is specifically approved by the Government of the United States of America ) , of the surplus agricultural commodities purchased pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement , and to assure that the purchase of such commodities does not result in increased availability of these or like commodities for export from India .
The two Governments agree that they will take reasonable precautions to assure that all sales or purchases of surplus agricultural commodities , pursuant to the Agreement will not displace usual marketings of the United States of America in these commodities , or unduly disrupt world prices of agricultural commodities or normal patterns of commercial trade with friendly countries .
In carrying out this Agreement , the two Governments will seek to assure , to the extent practicable , conditions of commerce permitting private traders to function effectively and will use their best endeavors to develop and extend continuous market demand for agricultural commodities .
The Government of India agrees to furnish , upon request of the United States of America , information on the progress of the program , particularly with respect to the arrival and condition of commodities and the provisions for the maintenance of usual marketings , and information relating to exports of the same or like commodities .
Article 5 , consultation
Article 6 , entry into force
In witness whereof , the respective representatives , duly authorized for the purpose , have signed the present Agreement .
Done at Washington in duplicate this fourth day of May 1960 .
For the government of the United States of America :
Dwight D. Eisenhower
for the government of India :
S. K. Patil Excellency :
I have the honor to refer to the Agricultural Commodities Agreement signed today between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of India ( hereinafter referred to as the Agreement ) and , with regard to the rupees accruing to uses indicated under Article 2 , of the Agreement , to state that the understanding of the Government of the United States of America is as follows : 1 .
With respect to Article 2 , , Paragraph 1 ( A ) of the Agreement : ( 1 )
The Government of the United States of America may utilize rupees in India to pay for goods and services , including international transportation needed in connection with market development and other agricultural projects and activities in India and other countries .
With respect to Article 2 , , paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) : Uses of Section 104 ( E ) and Section 104 ( G ) rupees : The Government of India will use the amount of rupees granted or loaned to it by the United States pursuant to paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) for projects to promote economic development with emphasis upon the agricultural sector including food reserve storage structures and facilities as may from time to time be agreed upon by the authorized representatives of the United States and the authorized representatives of the Government of India , in the following sectors : A .
Agriculture ; ;
Industry , including the production of fertilizer , irrigation and power , transport and communications , and credit institutions ; ;
Public health , education , and rehabilitation ; ;
Other economic development projects consistent with the purposes of Sections 104 ( E ) and 104 ( G ) of the Act .
It is agreed that any goods delivered or services rendered after the date of this agreement for projects within categories A , B , and C under paragraph 2 above which may later be approved by the United States will be eligible for financing from currency granted or loaned to the Government of India .
With regard to the rupees accruing to uses indicated under Article 2 , of the Agreement , the understanding of the Government of the United States of America , with respect to both paragraphs 1 ( B ) and 1 ( C ) of Article 2 , is as follows : ( 1 )
This broad delegation leaves within our discretion ( subject to the always-present criterion of the public interest ) both the determination of what degree of interference shall be considered excessive , and the methods by which such excessive interference shall be avoided .
The present proceeding is concerned with the standard broadcast ( AM ) band , from 540 kc. to 1600 kc. .
The 20-to-1 ratio for cochannel interference embodies one of the fundamental limiting principles which we must always take into account in AM assignments and allocations -- that signals from a particular station are potential sources of objectionable interference over an area much greater than that within which they provide useful service .
It was recognized years ago that the transition from daytime to nighttime propagation conditions , and vice versa , is not an instantaneous process , but takes place over periods of time from roughly 2 hours before sunset until about 2 hours after sunset , and again from roughly 2 hours before sunrise until some 2 hours after sunrise .
The same restrictions apply after local sunset in the case of class 3 , stations operating on regional channels , which after that time are required to operate under nighttime restrictions in order to protect each other .
Allocation policies
As mentioned , the allocation of AM stations represents a balance between protection against interference and the provision of opportunity for an adequate number of stations .
With respect to other frequencies , these are designated as regional or local , and assigned for use by class 3 , and class 4 , stations , respectively , stations operating generally with lower power .
As mentioned , the primary allocation objective to be followed in the allocation of stations on clear channels is the provision of widespread service , free from destructive interference .
Essentially , the question presented for decision in the present Daytime Skywave proceeding is whether our decision ( in 1938-1939 ) to assign stations on the basis of daytime conditions from sunrise to sunset , is sound as a basis for AM allocations , or whether , in the light of later developments and new understanding , skywave transmission is of such significance during the hours immediately before sunset and after sunrise that this condition should be taken into account , and some stations required to afford protection to other stations during these hours .
The history of the proceeding
The decision reached in 1938-39 was made after the accumulation of a large amount of data and thorough study thereof .
If you elect to use the Standard Deduction or the Tax Table , and later find you should have itemized your deductions , you may do so by filing an amended return within the time prescribed for filing a claim for refund .
If the last day ( due date ) for performing any act for tax purposes , such as filing a return or making a tax payment , etc. , falls on Saturday , Sunday , or a legal holiday , you may perform that act on the next succeeding day which is not a Saturday , Sunday , or legal holiday .
If you mail A return or tax payment , you must place it in the mails in ample time to reach the district director on or before the due date .
If you were required to file a declaration of estimated tax for the calendar year 1961 , it is not necessary to pay the fourth installment otherwise due on January 15 , 1962 , if you file your income tax return Form 1040 , and pay your tax in full for the calendar year 1961 by January 31 , 1962 .
Nonresident aliens living in Canada or Mexico who earn wages in the United States may be subject to withholding of tax on their wages , the same as if they were citizens of the United States .
If you are a nonresident alien and a resident of Puerto Rico , your return is also due June 15 , 1962 , or the 15th day of the 6th month after the close of your fiscal year .
If A taxpayer dies , the executor , administrator , or legal representative must file the final return for the decedent on or before the 15th day of the 4th month following the close of the deceased taxpayer's normal tax year .
The return for a decedent may also serve as a claim for refund of an overpayment of tax .
Returns of estates or trusts are due on or before the 15th day of the 4th month after the close of the tax year .
Under unusual circumstances a resident individual may be granted an extension of time to file a return .
Citizens of the United States who , on April 15 , are not in the United States or Puerto Rico , are allowed an extension of time until June 15 for filing the return for the preceding calendar year .
Taxpayers residing or traveling in Alaska are also allowed this extension of time for filing , but those residing or traveling in Hawaii are not allowed this automatic extension .
Military or Naval Personnel on duty in Alaska or outside the United States and Puerto Rico are also allowed this automatic extension of time for filing their returns .
You must attach a statement to your return , if you take advantage of this automatic extension , showing that you were in Alaska or were outside the United States or Puerto Rico on April 15 or other due date .
Interest at the rate of 6% a year must be paid on taxes that are not paid on or before their due date .
If your computation on Form 1040 or Form 1040A shows you owe additional tax , it should be remitted with your return unless you owe less than $1 , in which case it is forgiven .
Whether the check is certified or uncertified , the tax is not paid until the check is paid .
An overpayment of income and social security taxes entitles you to a refund unless you indicate on the return that the overpayment should be applied to your succeeding year's estimated tax .
If you file Form 1040A and the District Director computes your tax , any refund to which you are entitled will be mailed to you .
If you file a Form 1040 , you should indicate in the place provided that there is an overpayment of tax and the amount you want refunded and the amount you want credited against your estimated tax .
Refunds of less than $1 will not be made unless you attach a separate application to your return requesting such a refund .
Send your return to the Director of Internal Revenue for the district in which you have your legal residence or principal place of business .
To compute your adjusted gross income you total all items of income .
Businessmen deduct all ordinary and necessary expenses attributable to a trade or business .
If you hold property for the production of rents or royalties you subtract , in computing Adjusted Gross Income , ordinary and necessary expenses and certain other deductions attributable to the property .
Outside salesmen deduct all expenses attributable to earning a salary , commission , or other compensation .
Employees deduct expenses of travel , meals and lodging while away from home in connection with the performance of their services as employees .
Sick pay , if included in your Gross Income , is deducted in arriving at Adjusted Gross Income .
If you are a life tenant , you deduct allowable depreciation and depletion .
Deductible losses on sales or exchanges of property are allowable in determining your Adjusted Gross Income .
You also deduct 50% of the excess of net long-term capital gains over net short-term capital losses in determining Adjusted Gross Income .
Certain other deductions are not allowed in determining Adjusted Gross Income .
2 .
A minor is subject to tax on his own earnings even though his parent may , under local law , have the right to them and might actually have received the money .
A minor child is allowed A personal exemption of $600 on his own return regardless of how much money he may earn .
If your child is under 19 or is a student you may also claim an exemption for him if he qualifies as your dependent , even though he earns $600 or more .
Your 16 year old son earned $720 in 1961 .
A minor who has gross income of less than $600 is entitled to a refund if income tax was withheld from his wages .
If your child works for you , you may deduct reasonable wages you paid to him for services he rendered in your business .
The one- or two-season hunt , of which there have been too many recently , may do more harm than good ; ;
For the making of selections on the basis of excellence requires that any foundation making the selections shall have available the judgments of a corps of advisors whose judgments are known to be good : such judgments can be known to be good only by the records of those selected , by records made subsequent to their selection over considerable periods of time .
The central group of the Foundation's advisors are , at any one period of time , the members of our Advisory Board , consisting , now , of thirty-six men and women .
For , in accordance with Mr. Lowell's concept of an advisory board , our selections are made by experienced selectors who give both constancy and consistency to our processes and our choices .
Two committees of members of the Advisory Board constitute the committees of selection -- one for the selection of Fellows from Canada , the United States , and the English-speaking Caribbean area and one for the selection of Fellows from the Latin American republics and the Republic of the Philippines .
To the members of our Advisory Board , and most specially to its members who constitute our committees of selection , the Foundation is indebted for its successes of choice of Fellows .
But the facts about our Advisory Board and its members' duties are only one of several sets of facts about the quest for advice , both reliable and imaginative , on which to base our selections of Fellows .
To all , the Foundation gives the kind of thanks which are more than thanks : to them we are grateful beyond the possibility of conveying in words how grateful we are .
It is a truism of business that no business can be better than its board of directors and its top management .
Dr. James Brown Fisk , physicist , President of the Bell Telephone Laboratories , was elected to the Board of Trustees .
Dr. Gordon N. Ray , Provost , Vice-President and Professor of English in the University of Illinois , was appointed Associate Secretary General .
Referring further to the Foundation's officers , Dr. James F. Mathias , for eleven years our discerning colleague as Associate Secretary , was promoted to be Secretary .
Also appointed to the Foundation's staff , as Assistant Secretary , is Mr. J. Kellum Smith , Jr. .
The present Secretary General has been the Foundation's principal administrative officer continuously since the Foundation's establishment thirty-five years ago .
We are not given to lamentations , neither personally nor in these Reports .
Forsan et haec olim meminisse iuvabit , as the Roman poet , Virgil , declared with much more historical sense than most writers of today .
For example , out of the social evils of the English industrial revolution came the novels of Charles Dickens ; ;
But as all understand who have eyes to see , nothing of the kind has happened ; ;
Sir Henry Sumner Maine , a hundred years before Communism was a force to be reckoned with , wrote his brilliant legal generalization , that `` the progress of society is from status to contract '' .
The eternal truth is that progress -- due , as it always is , to individual creative genius -- is just as dependent on freedom as human life is dependent on the beating of the heart .
And lest anybody think that considerations such as these are not germane in a foundation report , let me enlighten them with the truths that , under Communism there would have been no capital with which to endow the Foundation , and that there would not be that individual freedom within which the Fellows might proceed , untrammeled in every way , toward their discoveries , their creative efforts for the good of mankind .
During the year 1959 , we granted 354 Fellowships ; ;
Thus , we have no part , and want none , in current discussions of the relative importance of science , the social studies , the humanities , the creative arts .
When the Brown & Sharpe Manufacturing Company reached its 125th year as a going industrial concern during 1958 , it became an almost unique institution in the mechanical world .
With its history standing astride all but the very beginnings of the industrial revolution , Brown & Sharpe has become over the years a singular monument to the mechanical foresight of its founder , Joseph R. Brown , and a world-renowned synonym for precision and progress in metalworking technology .
Joseph R. Brown grew up in the bustle and enterprise of New England between 1810 and 1830 .
The years of Joseph's partnership with his father were numbered .
Joseph Brown continued in business by himself , quickly rebuilding the establishment which had been lost in the fire and beginning those first steps which were to establish him as a pioneer in raising the standards of accuracy of machine shop practice throughout the world .
Much of his genius , of course , sprang from his familiarity with clock movements .
The young apprentice apparently did well by Mr. Brown , for in the third year of his apprenticeship Lucian was offered a full partnership in the firm ; ;
By 1853 , the new partnership announced the precision vernier caliper as the first fruit of their joint efforts .
Throughout their careers , both Mr. Brown and Mr. Sharpe were interested in the problem of setting up standards of measurement for the mechanical trades .
As one development followed another , the company's reputation for precision in the graduating field brought it broader and broader opportunities for expansion in precision manufacture .
As the story goes , Mr. Gibbs , who originally came from the back counties of the Commonwealth of Virginia , saw an illustration in a magazine of the famous Howe sewing machine .
The new work was a boon to the partnership , not only for its own value but particularly for the stimulation it provided to the imagination of J. R. Brown toward yet further developments for production equipment .
The turret screw machine , now known as the Brown & Sharpe hand screw machine , takes its ancestry directly from Mr. Brown's efforts to introduce equipment to simplify the manufacture of the sewing machine .
In 1861 , Mr. Brown's attention was called to yet another basic production problem -- the manufacture of twist drills .
During the Civil War period Mr. Brown also invented the Brown & Sharpe formed tooth gear cutter , a basic invention which ultimately revolutionized the world's gear manufacturing industry by changing its basic economics .
The micrometer caliper , as a common workshop tool , also owes much to J. R. Brown .
The final achievement of Mr. Brown's long and interesting mechanical career runs a close second in importance to his development of the universal milling machine .
Following Mr. Brown's death , there came forward in the Brown & Sharpe organization many other men who contributed greatly to the development of the company .
As head of the firm Darling & Swartz , Mr. Darling began by challenging Brown & Sharpe to its keenest competition during the 1850's and early 60's .
Perhaps the outstanding standard bearer of Mr. Brown's tradition for accuracy was Mr. Oscar J. Beale , whose mechanical genius closely paralleled that of Mr. Brown , and whose particular forte was the development of the exceedingly accurate measuring machinery that enabled Brown & Sharpe to manufacture gages , and therefore its products , with an accuracy exceeding anything then available elsewhere in the world .
Also important on the Brown & Sharpe scene , at the turn of the century , was Mr. Richmond Viall , Works Superintendent of the company from 1876 to 1910 .
Commencing with the death of Lucian Sharpe in 1899 , the name of Henry D. Sharpe was for more than 50 years closely interwoven with the destiny of the company .
During these years the company's product line followed the basic tenets laid down by Mr. Brown .
In 1951 , Henry D. Sharpe , Jr. succeeded his father and continued the company's development as a major factor in the metal-working equipment business .
The Machine Tool Division is currently producing Brown & Sharpe single spindle automatic screw machines , grinding machines of many types , and knee and bed-type milling machines .
In the Industrial Products Division , the company manufactures and markets a wide line of precision gaging and inspection equipment , machinists' tools -- including micrometers , Vernier calipers , and accessories .
In the Cutting Tool Division , the principal products include a wide variety of high speed steel milling cutters , end mills and saws .
Sales and net income for the year ended December 31 , 1960 showed an improvement over 1959 .
Sales and other operating income increased 25.1% from $24,926,615 in 1959 to $31,179,816 in 1960 .
In spite of the fact that our largest market , the textile industry , was affected substantially by the current decline in business activity , we have been able to produce and deliver our machines throughout the year 1960 at a rate materially higher than during 1959 .
Outlook for current year
However , the healthy inventory position of the textile industry lends support to the broadly expressed belief that improvement in that industry can be expected by the second half of 1961 .
Need for sound tax policy
Such a depreciation policy would also , we believe , prove a very important factor in strengthening the competitive position of the U. S. textile and other industries , thus helping to strengthen the position of the dollar in foreign exchange .
Research and development
This program is based on the policy of designing and building efficient machines which will help produce better textile values -- fabrics whose cost in relation to quality , fashion and utility provide the consumer with better textile products for the money .
Such policy involves continuing effort to improve on existing mill equipment , in terms of efficiency and versatility .
Budget increased
Much of this necessary increase in research and development , though properly chargeable to current expenses , is not reflected in earnings until projects are completed and the new machines sold in quantity , usually over a period of several years .
Stretch yarn machines
This machine , operating at speeds up to 350,000 revolutions per minute , is believed to provide one of the fastest mechanical operations in industry today .
Large-package twister
Uniconer
The Uniconer has several outstanding features -- it operates with much greater efficiency than existing equipment ; ;
Because the bobbin-to-cone winding process is a relatively high-cost operation for the mill , the almost complete automation provided by the Uniconer can mean important economies in textile production , at the same time upgrading quality .
New Unifil application
Take-up machines
This new machine takes up filament yarn from spinneret or extruder and winds large packages at speeds up to 6,000 feet per minute .
Our take-up machines and our twister-coners are undergoing important pilot plant testing for application with new high polymer yarns , in several fiber producing plants .
Diversification plans
Patterson Moos research
We have recently entered into an agreement with Compagnie Generale De Telegraphie Sans Fil ( CSF ) of France for the exclusive exchange of technical information on thermoelectric materials .
A project for the Air Force has been completed in which the NAIR infrared detecting device was developed for area monitoring of noxious or dangerous gases .
We are initiating research on the use of solid state materials for infrared detection using a method which will not require cooling of materials to attain high sensitivity .
The rapid advance in science today suggests many other avenues of investigation .
New plant facilities
An architect's sketch of the new plant is shown on the front cover .
A major consideration in the choice of the Warwick site , four miles from Cranston , was the fact that it permits retention of our present trained and highly skilled work force .
We have entered into an agreement for the sale of the present Cranston properties , effective as soon as we have completed removal to our new plant .
British subsidiary
Financial developments
In addition to expenditures on the Warwick plant , we have invested approximately $1,961,000 for machinery and equipment at Cranston , and for new machinery , plant and equipment at Leesona-Holt , Limited .
Long term loans have been reduced by $395,000 to $2,461,000 .
Employee contracts
Personnel benefits
During the pension year ended December 31 , 1960 , 23 employees retired , making a total of 171 currently retired under the Company's pension plan .
The basic market for textiles is growing with the expansion of the population that began 20 years ago .
As in many other industries , rising costs and intense competition , both domestic and foreign , have exerted increasing pressure on earnings of the textile industry in recent years .
Increased efficiency
As a designer and manufacturer of textile production machinery , Leesona and other companies in its industry have sought to meet this challenge with new or improved equipment and methods that would increase production , yet maintain both quality and flexibility .
Problems of shifting styles
In addition , production machinery must in many cases be designed to handle with equal efficiency both natural fibers and the increasing number of synthetics , as well as blends .
Following the term of service in Japan , each emissary returns for a brief visit to the campus to interpret his experience to the college community .
Musical activities
All students are invited to participate in any of the musical organizations for which they qualify .
In addition to the many appearances of these organizations throughout the college year , there are concerts by students of the music department , by members of the music faculty , and by visiting artists .
Student musical organizations are the Knights of Carleton and the Overtones ( men's vocal groups ) , and the Keynotes ( a women's singing group ) .
Religious activities
A college service of worship is held each Sunday morning at eleven o'clock in the Chapel .
Chapel services are held weekly .
A Sunday evening program provides theological lectures , music , drama , and films related to the issues of the Judeo-Christian tradition .
Attendance is required at the College Service of Worship or at the Sunday Evening Program or at any regularly organized service of public worship .
Religious organizations include the groups described below .
There are other organizations representing several of the denominational groups .
Student religious organizations are co-ordinated under the Religious Activities Committee , a standing committee of the Carleton Student Association .
The Northfield churches include the following : Alliance , Congregational-Baptist , Episcopal , Lutheran ( Norwegian , Danish , Missouri Synod , and Bethel ) , Methodist , Moravian , Pentecostal , and Roman Catholic .
Theater
Dramatic activity at the College is organized and carried on by The Carleton Players , which is to say by all students who are so inclined to advance these aims .
For the 1960-1961 season , The Carleton Players have announced Blood Wedding by Federico Garcia Lorca , The Knight Of The Burning Pestle by Beaumont and Fletcher and A Moon For The Misbegotten by Eugene O'Neill , with a pre-season production of The Glass Menagerie by Tennessee Williams .
Student workshop
A student organization , Bottega , is open to any student interested in increasing his understanding and appreciation of the graphic and ceramic arts in their historical , technical , and productive contexts .
Athletics
The physical education program for men recognizes the value of participation in competitive sports in the development of the individual student and aims to give every man an opportunity to enter some form of athletic competition , either intercollegiate or intramural .
The same standards for admission , for eligibility to receive scholarships or grants-in-aid , and for scholastic performance at college apply to all students .
A faculty committee on athletics , responsible to the faculty as a whole , exercises control over the athletic program of the College .
The policies which govern the program 2 .
The preservation of desirable balance between the athletic and academic programs of the College 3 .
The approval of athletic schedules 4 .
The maintenance of Midwest Conference eligibility standards
Carleton is a member of the Midwest Collegiate Athletic Conference and abides by its eligibility rules .
A student who while in attendance at Carleton College participates in an athletic contest during the school year , other than that sponsored by the College , shall be permanently ineligible to participate in intercollegiate athletics at Carleton College and will also face permanent suspension from the institution .
A student to be eligible for the captaincy of any Carleton team must have a scholastic record of at least 1.00 .
The `` C '' club is composed of the men of the College who have won an official letter in Carleton athletics .
The Soccer Club was organized by undergraduate men interested in playing soccer and promoting the sport .
This Association , organized in 1920 , is affiliated with the Athletic Federation of College Women .
College publications
The Bulletin , in five issues : The Report Of The President in August ; ;
These publications may be secured as follows : The Annual Catalog from the Director of Admissions and other issues from the Publications Office .
In January , 1960 , the first issue of The Carleton Miscellany , a quarterly literary magazine , was published by the College .
Student publications
The Algol , the college annual , is published in the fall of each year .
Manuscript , a quarterly literary magazine , is published by the students of the College .
Campus broadcasting station
Student government
The Carleton Social Co-operative is a standing committee of the Carleton Student Association .
In recent months , much attention has been given to the probable extent of the current downtrend in business and economists are somewhat divided as to the outlook for the near future .
In the electronics industry , this tendency is well illustrated by inventories of TV sets .
Home entertainment sales up
In contrast to the lower turnout of TV , total radio production increased from 15.4 million sets to 16.7 million ( excluding export ) .
The outlook for entertainment electronics in 1961 is certainly far from clear at present , but recent surveys have shown a desire on the part of consumers to step up their buying plans for durable goods .
Military electronics to grow
Among the items scheduled for acceleration in the near future are the Polaris and B70 programs , strengthening of the airborne alert system of the Strategic Air Command , and improved battlefield surveillance systems .
The stepped-up defense procurement called for in the 1961 Budget has already begun to make itself felt in an upturn in orders for military electronic equipment and the components that go into it , and it has been suggested that an additional $2 billion increase in total defense spending may be requested for fiscal 1962 .
Industrial electronic equipment
Replacement parts
The markets for electronic parts in 1960 have reflected the changing patterns of the various end equipment segments of the industry .
Sales of transistors in 1960 exceeded $300 million , compared to $222 million in 1959 despite substantial price reductions in virtually all types .
In sum , I look for another good year for the electronics industry in 1961 , with total sales increasing about 7% to $10.8 billion , despite the uncertainties in the business outlook generally .
The appointment of Gilbert B. Devey as General Manager of VecTrol Engineering , Inc. , of Stamford , Connecticut , a leading manufacturer of thyratron and silicon controlled rectifier electrical controls , has been announced by David B. Peck , Vice President , Special Products .
Mr. Devey will be responsible for the commercial expansion of VecTrol's line of electronic and electrical power control components as furnished to end equipment manufacturers , working closely with Walter J. Brown , President and Director of Engineering of the recently acquired Sprague subsidiary .
Mr. Devey's new responsibilities are in addition to those of his present post as marketing manager of Sprague's Special Products Group , which manufactures a wide line of digital electronic components , packaged component assemblies , and high temperature magnet wires .
Mr. Devey first came to Sprague in 1953 as a Product Specialist in the Field Engineering Department , coming from the Office of Naval Research in Washington , D. C. , where he was an electronic scientist engaged in undersea warfare studies .
Mr. Brown , well-known , English-born inventor , prior to founding VecTrol was at various times section leader in radio research at Metropolitan Vickers Electrical Co. , Ltd. ; ;
The promotion of Robert E. Swift to the position of Assistant Manager of the Interference Control Field Service Department was announced early in December by Frederick S. Scarborough , Manager of Interference Control Field Service .
Between meetings he helps the president keep track of delegated matters .
Since faculty see themselves as self-employed professionals rather than as employees , enthusiasm in a common enterprise is proportionate to the sense of ownership they have in it by virtue of sharing in the decisions that govern its course .
The faculty believes that broad autonomy is necessary to preserve its freedom in teaching and scholarship .
How well do faculty members govern themselves ? ?
Although faculties insist on governing themselves , they grant little prestige to a member who actively participates in college or university government .
Despite the many avenues for the exchange of ideas between faculty and administration , complaints of a lack of communication persist .
To increase faculty influence and decrease tension , many presidents have established a standing advisory committee with which they can discuss problems frankly .
The president has little influence in day-by-day curricular changes , but if he looks ahead two , three , or five years to anticipate issues and throw out challenging ideas , he can open the way for innovation , and he can also have a great deal to say as to what path it will take .
The critical task for every president and his academic administrative staff is to assure that the college or university continually rebuilds and regenerates itself so that its performance will match changing social demands .
Deans can form an important bridge between the president and the faculty .
Faculty members depend on their department chairmen to promote their interests with the administration .
The quality of a president's leadership is measured first by his success in building up the faculty .
The academic dean should take a direct , long-term interest in faculty development .
For the maintenance of a long-term program , the departments , and particularly their chairmen , are strategic .
At some colleges and universities , a faculty committee reviews and reports to the administration on the qualifications of candidates .
Before the president recommends a candidate to the trustees , the administration collects the views of colleagues in the same field of knowledge on campus and elsewhere .
There are certain aspects of personnel development in which a president must involve himself directly .
A true university , like most successful marriages , is a unity of diversities Without forcing all components into a single pattern , the preparation of a master plan is an opportunity to consider interrelation of knowledge at its highest level , which a university -- in contrast to a multiversity -- should stand for .
Recently colleges and universities have begun to translate their educational philosophy into institution-wide goals .
For the president , a master plan looking ahead five years ( the maximum reach for sound forecasting ) , offers several practical advantages .
Before deciding where it is going , however , a college or university must know where it is .
Implementation of the master plan will inevitably be uneven .
To provide the continuous flow of information basic to administrative decisions , a number of institutions have established offices of institutional research .
The president's opportunity for influencing education reaches its highest point , as he decides which projects he will cut back , which he will advance by increased allowances or new fund-raising efforts .
No matter how high the hopes and dreams of educators , budget making adjusts them to the cold realities of dollars and cents .
Budgeting must be flexible to allow adaptation to the rapid changes in scientific and technological scholarship .
Supporting activities -- business management , public relations , fund-raising -- offer presidents one of their best chances to buy freedom for attention to education .
In the areas that do not relate directly to the educational program , expert subordinates will serve the college or university better than close presidential attention .
Just as the entire faculty should know the president's educational philosophy and objectives , so should non-academic officers .
A president is frequently besieged to serve in non-academic civic and governmental capacities , to make speeches to lay groups , and to make numerous ceremonial appearances on and off campus .
By sharing the load of important speeches with his colleagues , the president can develop a cadre of able spokesmen who will help to create a public perception of the university as an institution , something more than the lengthened shadow of one man .
1 .
Observations of the radio emission of a planet which has an extensive atmosphere will probe the atmosphere to a greater extent than those using shorter wave lengths and should in some cases give otherwise unobtainable information about the characteristics of the solid surface .
Of the remaining planets , only Mars and Saturn have been observed as radio sources , and not very much information is available .
The study of the radio emission of the moon and planets began with the detection of the thermal radiation of the moon at 1.25-cm wave length by Dicke and Beringer ( 1946 ) .
The radio emission of a planet was first detected in 1955 , when Burke and Franklin ( 1955 ) identified the origin of interference-like radio noise on their records at about 15 meters wave length as emission from Jupiter .
The observable characteristics of planetary radio radiation are the intensity , the polarization , and the direction of arrival of the waves .
The concept of apparent black-body temperature is used to describe the radiation received from the moon and the planets .
The radio radiation of the sun which is reflected from the moon and planets should be negligible compared with their thermal emission at centimeter wave lengths , except possibly at times of exceptional outbursts of solar radio noise .
2 .
In the observations at 4.3 mm ( Coates , 1959 ) , the diameter of the antenna beam , 6'.7 , was small enough to allow resolution of some of the larger features of the lunar surface , and contour diagrams have been made of the lunar brightness distribution at three lunar phases .
Very recently , observations have been made at 8-mm wave length with a reflector 22 meters in diameter with a resultant beam width of only about 2' ( Amenitskii , Noskova , and Salomonovich , 1960 ) .
The observations of Mayer , McCullough , and Sloanaker at 3.15 cm and of Sloanaker at 10.3 cm have not previously been published and will be briefly described .
The 10.3-cm observation of Sloanaker was made on May 20 , 1958 , using the 84-foot reflector at the Maryland Point Observatory of the U. S. Naval Research Laboratory .
Abstract
Introduction
The higher heat transfer rates at the anode compared with those at the cathode can be explained by the physical phenomena occurring in free burning arcs .
The heat transfer to the anode in free burning arcs is enhanced by a hot gas jet flowing from the cathode towards the anode with velocities up Af .
It is apparent from the above and from experimental evidence that the cooling requirements for the anode of free burning arcs are large compared with those for the cathode .
The third method was , to our knowledge , successfully applied for the first time by C. Sheer and co-workers ( Ref. 2 ) .
Experimental apparatus
Another anode holder used in the experiments is shown in figure 3 .
The argon flow from commercial bottles was regulated by a pressure regulator and measured with a gas flow rator .
Experimental procedure and error analysis
For each mass flow rate the arc voltage was measured .
The upstream gas temperature measured with the thermocouple shown in figure 2 was Af .
The thermocouples in the aluminum disk shown in figure 2 indicated an equilibrium temperature of the surface of Af .
A band viscometer is shown in Figure 2 .
In this test a Af tape was pulled between the blocks with a motor and pulley at a rate of Af with a clearance of 0.002'' '' on each side of the tape .
Although there were only four fluids tested , it was apparent that there were two distinct types .
Figure 3 shows the data on a silicone fluid , labeled 12,500 cps which gave a high positive normal pressure .
The two fluids which gave the small negative pressures were polybutenes with molecular weights which were stated to be 520 and 300 .
These experiments can be considered exploratory only .
The actual change Af caused by a shear field is calculated by multiplying the pressure differential times the volume , just as it is for any gravitational or osmotic pressure head .
Although the Af calculation is obvious by analogy with that for gravitational field and osmotic pressure , it is interesting to confirm it by a method which can be generalized to include related effects .
In the above development we have applied the thermodynamics of equilibrium ( referred to by some as thermostatics ) to the steady state .
The concept of the strain energy as a Gibbs function difference Af and exerting a force normal to the shearing face is compatible with the information obtained from optical birefringence studies of fluids undergoing shear .
There is another means which should show the direction and relative value of the stresses in viscoelastic fluids that is not mentioned as such in the literature , and that is the shape of the suspended drops of low viscosity fluids in shear fields .
These are reasonable assumptions with low viscosity fluids suspended in high viscosity fluids which are subjected to low rates of shear .
There are no data published in the literature on the shape of low viscosity drops to confirm the above formulas .
It is appropriate to call attention to certain thermodynamic properties of an ideal gas that are analogous to rubber-like deformation .
There is a well-known relationship between probability and entropy which states that Af , where **zq is the probability that state ( i.e. , volume for an ideal gas ) could be reached by chance alone .
A proton magnetic resonance study of polycrystalline Af as a function of magnetic field and temperature is presented .
Introduction
We first discuss the Af bond in Af .
Af bond in Af
Douglass found Af to be trigonal , Laue symmetry Af , with Af , Af .
The gross details of the structure appear reasonable .
If the Af bond is linear then there are three reasonable positions for the hydrogen atoms : ( 1 ) The hydrogen atoms are centered and hence all lie on a sheet midway between the oxygen sheets ; ;
Experimental procedures
Plane suggested another preparation of Af which we used here .
Differential thermal analysis showed a very small endothermic reaction at 340-degrees-C and a large endothermic reaction at 470-degrees-C .
The x-ray diffraction pattern of the material , taken with CuK**ya radiation , indicated the presence of no extra lines and was in good agreement with the pattern of Douglass .
Electron microscopic examination of the Af sample showed it to be composed of nearly isotropic particles about 0.3M in diameter .
Nuclear magnetic resonance ( NMR ) measurements
A single value of the thermal relaxation time Af at room temperature was measured by the progressive saturation method .
Field shifts were derived from the mean value of the resonance line , defined as the field about which the first moment is zero .
Second moments of the spectra were computed by numerical integration .
Spectra were obtained over the temperature range of 77 - 294-degrees-K .
The measured powder density of the Af used here was about Af , approximately one-third that of the crystal density ( Af ) .
Spectra were obtained from a powdered sample having the shape of a right circular cylinder with a height-to-diameter ratio of 4 : :
Polyphosphates gave renewed life to soap products at a time when surfactants were a threat though expensive , and these same polyphosphates spelled the decline of soap usage when the synergism between polyphosphates and synthetic detergent actives was recognized and exploited .
The market today for detergent builders is quite diverse .
Hard-surface cleaning in household application is represented by two classes of alkaline products : ( 1 ) the formulations made expressly for machine dishwashers , and ( 2 ) the general-purpose cleaners used for walls and woodwork .
The cleaning process
The problems of hard-surface cleaning are not nearly as complex .
Physical chemistry of washing
Dirt , which is here defined as particulate material which is usually inorganic and is very often extremely finely divided so as to exhibit colloidal properties .
Greasy soils , which are typified by hydrocarbons and fats ( esters of glycerol with long-chain organic acids ) .
Stains , which include the wide variety of nonparticulate materials which give color even when present in very low concentration on the soiled object .
Miscellaneous soils , which primarily include sticky substances and colorless liquids which evaporate to leave a residue .
The dirt on the soiled objects is mechanically held by surface irregularities to some extent .
Greases , stains , and miscellaneous soils are usually sorbed onto the soiled surface .
The washing process whereby soils are removed consists basically of applying mechanical action to loosen the dirt particles and dried matter in the presence of water which helps to float off the debris and acts , to some extent , as a dissolving and solvating agent .
As is well known , detergent actives belong to the chemical class consisting of moderately high molecular weight and highly polar molecules which exhibit the property of forming micelles in solution .
Related to micelle formation is the technologically important ability of detergent actives to congregate at oil - water interfaces in such a manner that the polar ( or ionized ) end of the molecule is directed towards the aqueous phase and the hydrocarbon chain towards the oily phase .
Substances other than detergent actives also tend to be strongly sorbed from aqueous media onto surfaces of other contiguous condensed phases .
From the equilibrium sorption data which are available , it seems logical to expect that polyphosphate ions would be strongly sorbed on the surface of the dirt ( especially clay soils ) so as to give it a greatly increased negative charge .
The crude picture of the detergency process thus far developed can be represented as : Af .
Upon consideration of the variety of soils and fabrics normally encountered in the washing process , it is little wonder that the use of a number of detergent constituents having `` synergistic '' properties has gained widespread acceptance .
The thermal exchange of chlorine between Af and liquid Af is readily measurable at temperatures in the range of 180-degrees and above .
Introduction
Experimental
-- Matheson highest purity tank chlorine was passed through a tube of resublimed Af into an evacuated Pyrex system where it was condensed with liquid air .
Of several methods employed for tagging chlorine with radiochlorine , the exchange of inactive chlorine with tagged aluminum chloride at room temperature was found to be the most satisfactory .
Liter quantities of Mallinckrodt , low sulfur , reagent grade carbon tetrachloride were saturated with Af and Af and illuminated for about 50 hours with a 1000 watt tungsten lamp at a distance of a few inches .
-- The samples for liquid phase thermal reaction studies were prepared in Pyrex capillary tubing 2.5 mm. i.d. and about 15 cm. long .
Following reaction the cells were scratched with a file and opened under a 20% aqueous sodium iodide solution .
Results
-- In studying the liquid phase thermal reaction , some 70 tubes from 12 different manifold fillings were prepared and analyzed .
The reaction rates observed at 200-degrees ranged from Af of the chlorine exchanged per hour to 0.7 exchanged per hour .
The liquid phase photochemical exchange between chlorine and carbon tetrachloride was more reproducible than the thermal exchange , although still erratic .
It was possible to make estimates of the quantum yield by observing the extent of reduction of a uranyl oxalate actinometer solution illuminated for a known time in a typical reaction cell and making appropriate conversions based on the differences in the absorption spectra of uranyl oxalate and of chlorine , and considering the spectral distribution of the light source .
When typical reaction cells to which 0.3 of an atmosphere of oxygen had been added were illuminated , chlorine and phosgene were produced .
-- Although there was some variation in results which must be attributed either to trace impurities or to variation in wall effects , the photochemical exchange in the gas phase was sufficiently reproducible so that it seemed meaningful to compare the reaction rates in different series of reaction tubes for the purpose of obtaining information on the effect of chlorine concentration and of carbon tetrachloride concentration on the reaction rate .
In series 1 , the relative light intensity was varied by varying the distance of the lamp from the reaction cell over the range from 14.7 to 29.2 cm. .
The Poynting-Robertson effect ( Robertson , 1937 ; ;
The Poynting-Robertson effect causes the semi-major axis of orbits to diminish more rapidly than the semi-minor axis , with a consequent tendency toward circular orbits as the particles move toward the sun .
Since there is a continual loss of micrometeoritic material in space because of the radiation effects , there must be a continual replenishment : otherwise , micrometeorites would have disappeared from interplanetary space .
5.3 direct measurements of micrometeorite flux
There are several sources of evidence on the micrometeorite environment .
The direct evidence on the micrometeorite environment near the Earth is obtained from piezoelectric sensors ( essentially microphones ) and from wire gages ; ;
The impact rate on 1958 Alpha for 153 events was Af for particles of mass greater than Af ( Dubin , 1960 ) ; ;
There have been contradictory reports from 1958 Delta 2 , and the data quoted here are believed to be the more reliable .
Preliminary data from 1959 Eta give an average impact rate of Af for masses larger than Af for about 1000 events in a 22-day period ( LaGow and Alexander , 1960 ) .
Space probes have yielded little information .
The calibration of piezoelectric sensors in terms of the particle parameters is very uncertain .
The flux of micrometeorites in the neighborhood of the Earth can be estimated by extrapolation from radar and visual meteor data .
Note that the mass scale is one to two orders of magnitude greater than some previously used ; ;
A concentration distribution has been derived from radar observations sensitive to the fifteenth magnitude ( Manning and Eshleman , 1959 ) .
5.4 .
Biological warfare
Biological warfare is considered to be primarily a strategic weapon .
An important operational procedure in BW for an enemy would be to create an areosol or cloud of agent over the target area .
The biological and physical properties of infectious particles have been studied intensively during the past fifteen years .
The importance of particle size in such aerosols has been thoroughly demonstrated .
In considering BW defense , it must be recognized that a number of critical meterological parameters must be met for an aerosol to exhibit optimum effect .
Certain other properties of small particles , in addition to those already mentioned in connection with penetration of the respiratory tract , are noteworthy in defense considerations .
Something of the behavior of clouds of small particles can be illustrated by the following field trials :
In the first trial an inert substance was disseminated from a boat travelling some ten miles off shore under appropriately selected meteorological conditions .
Figure 1 describes the results obtained in this trial .
The behavior of a biological aerosol , on a much smaller scale , is illustrated by a specific field trial conducted with a non-pathogenic organism .
This operation was started at 5:00 p.m. and lasted for 29 minutes .
All samplers were operated for a period of two hours except one , which was operated for four hours .
As can be seen from Figure 2 , an extensive area was covered by this aerosol .
.
A number of unique medical problems might be created when man is exposed to an infectious agent through the respiratory route rather than by natural portal of entry .
An enemy would obviously choose an agent that is believed to be highly infectious .
An agent would likely be selected which would possess sufficient viability and virulence stability to meet realistic minimal logistic requirements .
An aggressor would use an agent against which there was a minimal naturally acquired or artificially induced immunity in a target population .
There is a broad spectrum of organisms from which selection for a specified military purpose might be made .
It is possible that certain mutational forms may be produced such as antibiotic resistant strains .
Biological agents are , of course , highly host-specific .
The question of epidemic disease merits some discussion .
Our major problem is what an enemy might accomplish in an initial attack on a target .
The major defensive problems are concerned with the possibility of overt military delivery of biological agents from appropriate disseminating devices .
Biological agents are , moreover , suitable for delivery through enemy sabotage which imposes many problems in defense .
A variety of techniques have been directed toward the isolation and study of blood group antibodies .
In the present work whole sera have been fractionated by chromatography on DEAE-cellulose using single gradients similar to those described by Sober and Peterson , and certain chemical and serological properties of the fractions containing antibodies of the ABO and Rh systems have been described .
Materials and methods
Serum samples were obtained from normal group A , group B and group O donors .
Anti-A and anti-B activities were determined in fractions from the sera of group A , group B or group O donors by the following tube agglutination methods .
The saline and albumin tests were performed as described for the ABO samples except that the mixture was incubated for 1 hr at 37-degrees-C before centrifugation .
The red cells for the Rh antibody tests were used within 3 days after drawing except for the Af cells , which had been glycerolized and stored at -20-degrees-C for approximately 1 year .
Blood samples were allowed to clot at room temperature for 3 hr , centrifuged and the serum was removed .
The chromatography was done at 6-degrees-C using gradient elution , essentially according to Sober and Peterson .
A flow rate of 72 Af was used and 12 ml fractions were collected .
For protein identification , fractions from the column were concentrated by pervaporation against a stream of air at 5-degrees-C or by negative pressure dialysis in an apparatus which permitted simultaneous concentration of the protein and dialysis against isotonic saline .
Paper electrophoresis was carried out on the concentrated samples in a Spinco model R cell using barbital buffer , pH 8.6 , ionic strength 0.075 , at room temperature on Whatman 3MM filter paper .
When paper electrophoresis was to be used for preparation , eight strips of a whole serum sample or a chromatographic fraction concentrated by negative pressure dialysis were run/chamber under the conditions described above .
Fractions from the column which were to be subjected to analytical ultracentrifugation were concentrated by negative pressure dialysis and dialyzed for 16 hr in the cold against at least 500 volumes of phosphate-buffered saline , pH 7.2 , ionic strength 0.154 .
For preparative ultracentrifugation , fractions from the column were concentrated by negative pressure dialysis to volumes of 1 ml or less , transferred to cellulose tubes and diluted to 12 ml with isotonic saline .
Other methods will be described below .
Experimental and results
Not all these regions exhibited equal agglutinating activity , as evidenced by titer and the extent of the active areas .
Several samples of citrated plasma were fractionated in our laboratory by Method 6 of Cohn et al .
Chromatography of whole sera revealed that the areas of Rh antibody activity were generally continuous and wide .
Apart from the honeybee , practically all bees and bumblebees hibernate in a state of torpor .
Each male willow catkin is composed of a large number of small flowers .
Quite often , honeybees form a majority on the willow catkins .
If we manage to keep track of a Bombus queen after she has left her feeding place , we may discover the snug little hideout which she has fixed up for herself when she woke up from her winter sleep .
The larvae , kept warm by the queen , are full grown in about ten days .
Not always , though , does the development of a bumblebee colony take place in the smooth fashion we have just described .
But let us return , after this gruesome interlude , to our willow catkins in the spring ; ;
It is almost certain that some of these , usually a trifle smaller than the honeybees , are andrenas or mining bees .
After having mated , an Andrena female digs a hole straight down into the ground , forming a burrow about the size of a lead pencil .
After the male and female andrenas have mated , the cycle is repeated .
Closely related to the andrenas are the nomias or alkali bees .
I must plead guilty to a special sympathy for nomias .
Many other ( probably nearly all ) snakes at maturity are already more than half their final length .
It is possible to make a few generalizations about the six giants themselves .
Let us speculate a little on the maximum size of the anaconda .
When it comes to rate of early growth , the Indian python leads with a figure of about 3 feet 6 inches per year for the first two years , more or less .
I cannot make sense out of the figures for post maturity growth ; ;
It is often stated that the largest snakes require five years to attain maturity , but this apparently is an overestimation .
Another approach is to estimate from the rate of growth and the smallest size at maturity .
The following information on snakes varying greatly in size ( but all with less than a 10-foot maximum ) shows , when considered with the foregoing , that there is probably no correlation between the length of a snake and the time required for it to mature .
Maximum length
In spite of all the pitfalls , there is a certain amount of agreement on some of the giants .
There are three levels on which to treat the subject .
Oliver has recently used the second-level approach with the largest snakes , and has come to these conclusions : the anaconda reaches a length of at least 37 feet , the reticulate python 33 , the African rock python 25 , the amethystine python at least 22 , the Indian python 20 , and the boa constrictor 18-1/2 .
Bernard Heuvelmans also treats of the largest snakes , but on the third level , and is chiefly concerned with the anaconda .
Detailed information on record lengths of the giants is given in the section that follows .
Growth of the six giants
I have little information on the anaconda's rate of growth .
In 1948 , Afranio Do Amaral , the noted Brazilian herpetologist , wrote a technical paper on the giant snakes .
The most convincing recent measurement of an anaconda was made in eastern Colombia by Roberto Lamon , a petroleum geologist of the Richmond Oil Company , and reported in 1944 by Emmett R. Dunn .
It is possible that especially large anacondas will prove to belong to subspecies limited to a small area .
Alphonse R. Hoge's measurements of several very young specimens from Brazil suggest that at birth the female is slightly larger than the male .
I have surprisingly little information on the size and age at maturity .
What data there are on growth indicate considerable variation in rate ; ;
The bronchus and pulmonary artery in this lung type maintain a close relationship throughout .
Lung type 3 ( ( fig. 3 ) is to some degree a composite of types 1 , and 2 .
Discussion
Within certain wide limits anatomy dictates function and , if one is permitted to speculate , potential pathology should be included in this statement as well .
Anatomically , the horse lung appears to be remarkably like that of man , insofar as this can be ascertained from comparison of our findings in the horse with those of others ( Birnbaum , '54 ) in the human being .
The meaning of this variation in distribution of the bronchial artery as found in the horse is not clear .
The presence of normally occurring bronchial artery-pulmonary artery anastomoses was first noted in 1721 by Ruysch , and thereafter by many others .
In addition , little work has been done on a comparative basis in regard to the normal existence of bronchial artery-pulmonary artery anastomoses .
In conclusion , these findings suggest the need for a comparative physiology , pathology , and histology of mammalian lungs .
Summary
Some of the features of the top portions of Figure 1 and Figure 2 were mentioned in discussing Table 1 .
The Onset Profile and Completion Profile are constructed to serve as norms for children .
In the lower portion of each Chart , the Skeletal Age ( Hand ) of boy 34 and girl 2 may be similarly classified .
To summarize the purpose of the Skeletal Maturity Chart : each contains two kinds of skeletal maturity norms which show two quite different methods of depicting developmental level of growth centers .
Onsets , Completions , and Skeletal Ages ( Hand ) of boy 34 and girl 2 may be directly compared and classified , using only those Skeletal Ages which appear immediately below the Onset Profile and the Completion Profile .
It was stated earlier that one purpose of this study was to extend the analysis of variability of Onset and Completion in each of the 21 growth centers somewhat beyond that provided by the data in Tables 1 and 2 .
The `` dot '' on one end of each arrow indicates extent of difference in months between the child's onset age and the corresponding mean age for the growth center .
The difference between the sequence of Onset of ossification for the sexes governs the numbering sequence in Figures 3 and 4 .
We have attempted to simplify the extensive task of analyzing onset ages and completion ages of each child -- more than 1700 values for the entire group -- by constructing figures for each of the 21 centers so that the data for all 34 boys and 34 of the girls will appear together for each growth center .
The principles used in making each arrow for Figures 3 and 4 were applied to the construction of Figures 5 and 6 as well as all figures in the Appendix .
The following summary , based on Figures 5 and 6 , is an example of one way of interpreting the 42 figures constructed from onset ages and completion ages of individual children with respect to the appropriate mean age for each growth center .
It seems clear , from the counter-balanced shape of the series of arrows in Figure 5 that there was about an equal number of early and late Onsets and Completions for the 34 girls .
A similar analysis of Figure 6 for the 34 boys would necessitate quite a different conclusion about the predictive value of onset age in forecasting their attainment of the pubescent stage .
After the 42 figures had been drawn like Figures 5 and 6 , classifications of the onset ages and completion ages were summarized from them .
Interestingly enough , the effect of the digitalis glycosides is inhibited by a high concentration of potassium in the incubation medium and is enhanced by the absence of potassium ( Wolff , 1960 ) .
The chemical nature of the iodocompounds is discussed below ( pp. 76 et seq. ) .
B .
1 .
In the last few years , the application of chromatographic and other modern techniques to the problem of isolating TSH has led to further purification ( Bates and Condliffe , 1960 ; ;
Two problems present themselves in considering any hormone in blood .
In evaluating data on the concentration of TSH in blood , one must examine critically the bio-assay methods used to obtain them .
Introduction
Report of case
In 1953 the patient developed an unexplained anemia for which 15 blood transfusions were given over a period of 4 years .
In February , 1958 , the patient suffered a myocardial infarction complicated by pulmonary edema .
Because of increasing anemia , triamcinolone , 8 mg. daily , was started on Feb. 23 , 1958 , and was continued until July , 1958 .
At this time a detailed neuromuscular examination revealed diffuse muscle atrophy that was moderate in the hands and feet , but marked in the shoulders , hips , and pelvic girdle , with hypoactive deep-tendon reflexes .
On Feb. 12 , 1959 , purified corticotropin ( ACTH Gel ) , 20 units daily intramuscularly , was started but had to be discontinued 3 weeks later because of excessive fluid retention .
Severe back pain in June , 1959 , prompted a third hospital admission .
The terminal hospital admission on June 27 , 1959 , was necessitated by continued weakness and debility complicated by urinary retention and painful thrombosed hemorrhoids .
Findings at necropsy
The heart weighed 510 gm. , and at the outflow tracts the left and right ventricles measured 19 and 3 mm. , respectively .
The intimal surface of the aorta was covered with confluent , yellow-brown , hard , friable plaques along its entire course , and there was a marked narrowing of the orifices of the large major visceral arteries .
The lungs weighed together 950 gm. .
The firm red spleen weighed 410 gm. , and its surface was mottled by discrete , small patches of white material .
The liver weighed 2,090 gm. , was brown in color , and the cut surface was mottled by irregular pale areas .
The gallbladder contained about 40 cc. of green-brown bile and 3 smooth , dark-green calculi measuring up to 1 cm. in diameter .
The mucosa of the stomach was atrophic and irregularly blackened over a 14 cm. area .
The kidneys were pale and weighed right , 110 gm. , and left , 230 gm. .
The bone of the vertebral bodies , ribs , and sternum was soft and was easily compressed .
Microscopic studies of the gastrocnemius , pectoralis major , transversus abdominis , biceps brachii , and diaphragm showed atrophy as well as varying degrees of injury ranging from swelling and vacuolization to focal necrosis of the muscle fibers .
In the gastrocnemius and biceps there were many swollen and homogeneous necrotic fibers such as that shown in Figure 2 .
Purification of the conjugates
The sections were fixed in acetone for 15 minutes and dried at 37-degrees for 30 minutes .
After drying the sections under the fan , fixing in acetone , and drying at 37-degrees as in the indirect method , the sections were treated with conjugated Af or Af ( undiluted unless mentioned otherwise ) for 5 - 30 minutes .
Results
In the first few experiments Af was passed through Dowex-2-chloride twice and absorbed twice with 50 - 100 mg sweet clover tissue powder .
Two absorptions of Af with ethyl acetate or two absorptions of Af ( which had been passed through Dowex-2-chloride ) , NS and Af with crown gall tissue powder , or mouse liver powder did not further improve the specificity of staining .
The only treatment by which nonspecific staining could be satisfactorily removed was by passing the conjugate through a DEAE-cellulose column .
Af was first conjugated with 50 mg of FITC per gram of globulin .
In later experiments , Af and Af were prepared by conjugating 8 mg of FITC per gram of globulin .
After passing Af through DEAE-cellulose , the titer of antibodies to WTV in the specific fraction was 1 : 4 of the titer before such passage ( precipitin ring tests by R. F. Whitcomb ) ; ;
Specific staining by DEAE-cellulose treated Af and Af , although clearly distinguishable under the microscope from either nonspecific staining or autofluorescence of cells , was not satisfactorily photographed to show such differences in spite of many attempts with black and white and color photography .
Within the pseudophloem cells the distribution of WTV antigen was irregular in the cytoplasm .
Discussion
In our work the best procedure for removing substances causing nonspecific staining in order to obtain specific conjugates was to pass the conjugates through a DEAE-cellulose column and in some cases to absorb the first and second milliliter fractions with sweet clover tissue powder .
The specific staining by both direct and indirect methods showed that WTV antigen was concentrated in the pseudophloem tissue and in a few thick-walled cells in the xylem region , but was not detectable in any other tissues of the root and stem tumors .
Wound-tumor virus is a leafhopper transmitted virus not easily transmissible by mechanical inoculation ( Black , 1944 ; ;
Since emotional reactions in the higher vertebrates depend on individual experience and are aroused in man , in addition , by complex symbols , one would expect that the hypothalamus could be excited from the cortex .
It seems to follow that by and large an antagonism exists between the paleo- and the neocortex as far as emotional reactivity is concerned , and that the balance between the two systems determines the emotional responsiveness of the organism .
Previous experiences are obviously of great importance for the qualitative and quantitative emotional response .
13 .
Before we comment further on these pathological conditions , we should remember that changes in the state of the hypothalamus within physiological limits distinguish sleep from wakefulness .
Of particular importance is the study of the actions of drugs in this respect .
The shock therapies act likewise on the hypothalamic balance .
It was assumed that the shift in autonomic hypothalamic balance occurring spontaneously in neuropsychiatric patients from the application of certain therapeutic procedures follows the pattern known from the sleep-wakefulness cycle .
Perhaps a clue to these and related problems lies in the fact that changes in the intensity of hypothalamic discharges which are associated with changes in its balance lead also to qualitative alterations in reactivity .
It has further been shown that : ( 1 ) an experimental neurosis in its initial stages is associated with a reversible shift in the central autonomic balance ; ;
14 .
Wolpe's experiments and therapeutic work lie in this area .
For the interpretation of these significant investigations , it should be remembered that reciprocal relations exist in the hypothalamus with respect to autonomic and somatic functions which are closely associated with the emotions .
15 .
6.4 .
This will be more or less our general method for the second problem .
Theorem 12 .
Let T be a linear operator on the finite-dimensional vector space V over the field F .
The idea of the proof is this .
For each i , let Af .
Let Af .
It is certainly clear that the subspaces Af are invariant under T .
Corollary .
If Af are the projections associated with the primary decomposition of T , then each Af is a polynomial in T , and accordingly if a linear operator U commutes with T then U commutes with each of the Af , i.e. , each subspace Af is invariant under U .
In the notation of the proof of Theorem 12 , let us take a look at the special case in which the minimal polynomial for T is a product of first-degree polynomials , i.e. , the case in which each Af is of the form Af .
Definition .
Let N be a linear operator on the vector space V .
Theorem 13 .
Let T be a linear operator on the finite-dimensional vector space V over the field F .
We have just observed that we can write Af where D is diagonalizable and N is nilpotent , and where D and N not only commute but are polynomials in T .
Since D' and N' commute with one another and Af , we see that D' and N' commute with T .
Corollary .
Let V be a finite-dimensional vector space over an algebraically closed field F , e.g. , the field of complex numbers .
From these results , one sees that the study of linear operators on vector spaces over an algebraically closed field is essentially reduced to the study of nilpotent operators .
In concluding this section , we should like to give an example which illustrates some of the ideas of the primary decomposition theorem .
Example 11 .
In the primary decomposition theorem , it is not necessary that the vector space V be finite dimensional , nor is it necessary for parts ( A ) and ( B ) that P be the minimal polynomial for T .
Let N be a positive integer and let V be the space of all N times continuously differentiable functions F on the real line which satisfy the differential equation Af where Af are some fixed constants .
If we are discussing differentiable complex-valued functions , then Af and V are complex vector spaces , and Af may be any complex numbers .
To describe the space of solutions to Af , one must know something about differential equations ; ;
7-1 .
A trained marksman shooting five rounds at a target , all under practically the same conditions , may hit the bull's-eye from 0 to 5 times .
In litters of eight mice from similar parents , the number of mice with straight instead of wavy hair is an integer from 0 to 8 .
When three dice are tossed repeatedly , what is the probability that the number of aces is 0 ( or 1 , or 2 , or 3 ) ? ?
More generally , suppose that an experiment consists of a number of independent trials , that each trial results in either a `` success '' or a `` non-success '' ( `` failure '' ) , and that the probability of success remains constant from trial to trial .
The major question in this chapter is : What is the probability of exactly X successes in N trials ? ?
In Chapters 3 and 4 we answered questions like those in the examples , usually by counting points in a sample space .
Experiments are often composed of several identical trials , and sometimes experiments themselves are repeated .
Ten students act as managers for a high-school football team , and of these managers a proportion P are licensed drivers .
Note that there are 3 trials of interest .
For an experiment to qualify as a binomial experiment , it must have four properties : ( 1 ) there must be a fixed number of trials , ( 2 ) each trial must result in a `` success '' or a `` failure '' ( a binomial trial ) , ( 3 ) all trials must have identical probabilities of success , ( 4 ) the trials must be independent of each other .
For the marksman , we study sets of five shots ( Af ) ; ;
Toss a die until an ace appears .
Each of the N trials is either a success or a failure .
We classify mice as `` straight-haired '' or `` wavy-haired '' , but a hairless mouse appears .
Each die has probability Af of producing an ace ; ;
During a round of target practice the sun comes from behind a cloud and dazzles the marksman , lowering his chance of a bull's-eye .
Strictly speaking , this means that the probability for each possible outcome of the experiment can be computed by multiplying together the probabilities of the possible outcomes of the single binomial trials .
A family of five plans to go together either to the beach or to the mountains , and a coin is tossed to decide .
Each performance of an n-trial binomial experiment results in some whole number from 0 through N as the value of the random variable X , where Af .
We shall find a formula for the probability of exactly X successes for given values of P and N .
Each binomial trial of a binomial experiment produces either 0 or 1 success .
The marksman gets two bull's-eyes , one on his third shot and one on his fifth .
Consider a simple , closed , plane curve C which is a real-analytic image of the unit circle , and which is given by Af .
A square inscribed in a curve C means a square with its four corner points on the curve , though it may not lie entirely in the interior of C .
On C , from the point P at Af to the point Q at Af , we construct the chord , and upon the chord as a side erect a square in such a way that as S approaches zero the square is inside C .
Suppose Af crosses C when Af .
To each paired vertex and diagonal point there corresponds a unique forward corner point , i.e. , the corner on C reached first by proceeding along C from the vertex in the direction of increasing T .
With each vertex we associate certain numerical values , namely the set of positive differences in the parameter T between the vertex and its corresponding forward corner points .
We consider now the graph of the function f{t} on Af .
Lemma 1 .
In some neighborhood in the f-plane of any ordinary point of the graph , the function f is a single-valued , continuous function .
We first show that the function is single-valued in some neighborhood .
We turn now to the set of tangent points on the graph .
Lemma 2 .
In some neighborhood of an isolated tangent point in the f-plane , say Af , the function Af is either double-valued or has no values defined , except at the tangent point itself , where it is single-valued .
A tangent point Q in the C-plane occurs when C and Af are tangent to one another .
With the above results we can make the following remarks about the graph of F .
Definition .
The number of ordinary values of the function f{t} at T will be called its multiplicity at T .
Lemma 3 .
The graph of f has at least one component whose support is the entire interval Aj .
We have shown that the graph of F contains at least one component whose inverse is the entire interval {0,T} , and whose multiplicity is odd .
We must now show that on some component of the graph there exist two points for which the corresponding diagonal points in the C-plane are on opposite sides of C .
Lemma 4 .
The values Af are the ordinary values at Af of a multi-valued function g{t} which has components corresponding to those of f{t} .
We first define a function b{t} as follows : given the set of squares such that each has three corners on C and vertex at t , b{t} is the corresponding set of positive parametric differences between T and the backward corner points .
Introduction .
In 1 we investigate a new series of line involutions in a projective space of three dimensions over the field of complex numbers .
1 .
Let Q be a nonsingular quadric surface bearing reguli Af and Af , and let **zg be a Af curve of order K on Q .
We observe first that no line , l , can meet its image except at one of its intersections with Q .
The invariant lines are the lines of the congruence of secants of **zg , since each of these meets Q in two points which are invariant .
Since the complex of singular lines is of order K and since there is no complex of invariant lines , it follows from the formula Af that the order of the involution is Af .
There are various sets of exceptional lines , or lines whose images are not unique .
Each generator , **yl , of Af is also exceptional , for each is transformed into the entire congruence of secants of the curve into which that generator is transformed by the point involution on Q .
A final class of exceptional lines is identifiable from the following considerations : Since no two generators of Af can intersect , it follows that their image curves can have no free intersections .
A conic , C , being a ( 1 , 1 ) curve on Q , meets the image of any line of Af , which we have already found to be a Af curve on Q , in Af points .
2 .
The preceding observations make it clear that there exist line involutions of all orders greater than 1 with no complex of invariant lines and with a complex of singular lines consisting exclusively of the lines which meet a twisted curve Aj .
To do this we must first show that every line which meets **zg in a point P meets its image at P .
Now consider the transformation of the lines of a bundle with vertex , P , on **zg which is effected by the involution as a whole .
Observations similar to these can be made at each point of Aj .
We now observe that the case in which **zg is a Af curve on a quadric is impossible if the complex of singular lines consists exclusively of the lines which meet Aj .
Continuing with the case in which **zg is a Af curve on a quadric Q , we first observe that the second regulus of Q consists precisely of the lines which join the two free intersections of **zg and the planes through any one of the multiple secants .
Now consider an arbitrary line , l , meeting Q in two points , Af and Af .
These societies can expect to face difficult times .
Our central goal should be to provide the greatest positive incentive for these societies to tackle boldly the tasks which they face .
Transitional societies
Most countries in this second category share the difficulty of having many of the structures of a modern political and social system without the modern standards of performance required to make them effective .
American policy should press constantly the view that until these governments demand efficiency and effectiveness of their bureaucracies there is not the slightest hope that they will either modernize of democratize their societies .
Our technical assistance to these countries should place special emphasis on inducing the central governments to assume the role of advisor and guide which at an earlier stage foreign experts assumed in dealing with the central governments .
Land reform is likely to be a pressing issue in many of these countries .
Lastly , governmental and private planners will at this stage begin to see large capital requirements looming ahead .
Actively modernizing societies
On the economic front , the first priority of these countries is to mobilize a vastly increased volume of resources .
Thus , although the agenda of external assistance in the economic sphere are cumulative , and many of the policies suggested for nations in the earlier stages remain relevant , the basic purpose of American economic policy during the later stages of development should be to assure that movement into a stage of self-sustaining growth is not prevented by lack of foreign exchange .
There remain many political and administrative problems to be solved .
American policy toward such societies should stress our sympathy for the emerging social and professional classes .
The time factor
This condition affects not only the conception but also the legislative and financial support of foreign policy , especially in the context of economic aid .
2 : :
Although the inner functions of religion are not of direct significance in social organization , they have important indirect consequences .
In the last analysis , religion is the means of inducing , formulating , expressing , enhancing , implementing , and perpetuating man's deepest experience -- the religious .
A number of religions also satisfy for many the need of being linked with the ultimate and eternal .
There is also the possibility , among higher religions , of experiencing consistent meaning in life and enjoying guidance and expansiveness .
At the same time that religion binds the individual helpfully to the supernatural and gives him cosmic peace and a sense of supreme fulfillment , it also has great therapeutic value for him .
The belief in immortality , where held , functions as a redress for the ills and disappointments of the here and now .
In providing for these inner individual functions , religion undertakes in behalf of individual peace of mind and well-being services for which there is no other institution .
In addition to the functions of religion within man , there have always been the outer social functions for the community and society .
The value-system of a community or society is always correlated with , and to a degree dependent upon , a more or less shared system of religious beliefs and convictions .
Closely related to this function is the fact that the religious system provides a body of ultimate ends for the society , which are compatible with the supreme eternal ends .
Religion integrates and unifies .
The religious symbolism , and especially the closely related rites and worship forms , constitute a powerful bond for the members of the particular faith .
Durkheim noted long ago that religion as `` a unified system of beliefs and practices relative to sacred things unites into one single moral community all those who adhere to them '' .
The unifying effect of religion is also brought out in the fact that historically peoples have clung together as more or less cohesive cultural units , with religion as the dominant bond , even though spatially dispersed and not politically organized .
Religion usually exercises a stabilizing-conserving function .
At the same time that religion exercises a conserving influence , it also energizes and motivates both individuals and groups .
Religion usually acts as a powerful aid in social control , enforcing what men should or should not do .
Overwhelmed with the care of five young children and concerned about persistent economic difficulties due to her husband's marginal income , her defense of denial was excessively strong .
Mrs. B. compared her feelings of weakness to her feelings of weakness and helplessness at the time of her mother's death when she was eight , as well as her subsequent anger at her father for remarrying .
Direct confrontation and acceptance of Mrs. B.'s anger against the second baby soon dissipated her fears of annihilation .
As seen in the B. family , there must be an attempt to help the client develop conscious awareness of the problem , especially in the absence of a formal request for assistance .
To establish an emotionally meaningful relationship the worker must demonstrate actual or potential helpfulness immediately , preferably within the first interview , by meeting the client's specific needs .
In steering the family toward ego-adaptive and away from maladaptive responses , the worker uses time-honored focused casework techniques of specific emotional support , clarification , and anticipatory guidance .
Having outlined an approach to the theory and practice of preventive casework , we now address ourselves to our final question : What place should brief , crisis-oriented preventive casework occupy in our total spectrum of services ? ?
That we are experiencing an upsurge of interest in the many formulations and preventive adaptations of brief treatment in social casework is evident from even a small sampling of current literature .
Though there is obviously great need for continued experimentation with various types of short-term intervention to further efforts in developing an operational definition of prevention at the secondary -- or perhaps , in some instances , primary -- level , the place of short-term intervention has already been documented by a number of investigators in a wide variety of settings .
Our literature is already replete with a fantastic number of suggestions for preventive agency programming ranging from the immediately practical to the globally utopian .
Sentiment .
Tension management and communication of sentiment are the processes involved in the functioning of the element of sentiment or feeling .
Maintenance of the status quo might seem to be the appropriate goal or objective of this population today .
The norms , as elements , refer to `` all criteria for judging the character or conduct of both individual and group actions in any social system '' .
The element of status-roles and associated processes have not been sufficiently investigated for this population to permit any type of conjectures about them .
There is some indication from a limited number of interviews with members of the population that the element of power , primarily the voluntary influence of non-authoritative power , has been exerted on actors in the system , particularly in regard to mate selection .
Interviews with members of the Brandywine population were attempted in order to discover the ranking of the various families in the population .
The negative sanctions applied to core - Negro marriages for core members act as indicators of expected adherence to group norms .
Subsystems
Subgroups of various types , interconnected by relational norms .
Roles of various types , within the larger system and within the subgroups 3 .
Regulative norms governing subgroups and roles .
Cultural values .
In the study of marriage patterns for this group , consanguinity produces the structural system -- a system of affinities -- which , in turn , maintains the system of consanguinity .
The present study relates to the theory of functional systems .
Integration `` has to do with the inter-relation of parts '' .
Master processes
1 .
2 .
3 .
4 .
5 .
6 .
In discussing the process of communication , Loomis defines it as `` the process by which information , decisions , and directives are transmitted among actors and the ways in which knowledge , opinions , and attitudes are formed , or modified by interaction '' .
The process of social control is operative insofar as sanctions play a part in the individual's behavior , as well as the group's behavior .
There is an oral tradition among the members of the population in regard to the origin and subsequent separate status of the group in the larger society .
`` Culturally induced social cohesion resulting from common norms and values internalized by members of the group '' is operative in the boundary maintenance of the group as well as in the process of socialization .
The fertility rate pattern would seem to be a function , though a latent one , of the process of maintaining the boundary .
Where boundary maintenance describes the boundaries or limits of the group , systemic linkage is defined `` as the process whereby one or more of the elements of at least two social systems is articulated in such a manner that the two systems in some ways and on some occasions may be viewed as a single unit .
A royal decree issued in 1910 , two years after the Belgian government assumed authority for the administration of the Congo , prescribed the registration of all adult males by chiefdoms .
The regulations require the inscription of each individual ( male or female , adult or child ) on a separate card ( fiche ) .
Numbers of registered persons in four age-and-sex classes were counted each year .
The scheme , in theory , is an ingenious adaptation of European registration systems to the conditions of African life .
The same system , with minor modifications , was developed in Ruanda-Urundi under Belgian administration .
Before considering more recent activities , we should note another important aspect of demography in Belgian Africa .
A massive investigation of the characteristics of in-migrants and prospective out-migrants in Ruanda-Urundi is being carried on by J. J. Maquet , former Director of the Social Science branch of IRSAC , now a professor at l'Universite Officielle Du Congo Belge et Du Ruanda-Urundi .
Statistics have been recognized as a matter of strategic importance in the Congo and in Ruanda-Urundi during the post-war years in connection with long-term economic and social programs .
The initiation of sampling censuses in Ruanda-Urundi ( 1952 ) and in the Congo ( 1955 - 57 ) were major advances .
The radical nature of the innovation in the Congo was not emphasized in the official announcements .
Field operations were transferred from administrative personnel primarily engaged in other tasks to specially trained teams of full-time African investigators ( three teams , each working in two provinces ) .
Sample areas in the new investigations were selected strictly by application of the principles of probability theory , so as to be representative of the total population of defined areas within calculable limits .
Different sampling ratios were applied under different conditions .
Uniform questions , definitions , and procedures were enforced throughout the whole country .
These changes represent , in effect , a shift from ( 1 ) an administrative compilation of data obtained through procedures designed primarily to serve political and economic objectives to ( 2 ) a systematic sampling census of the whole African population .
The population registration system still has important functions .
The first sampling census in the Congo extended over a three-year period , 1955 - 57 ; ;
Reports already issued on the sampling census , 1955 - 57 , in various areas run as follows ( using only the French and omitting corresponding Flemish titles ) .
This report contains preliminary notes and 35 tables .
Other reports in identical form , but with somewhat varying content , have been issued .
These area reports will be followed , according to present plans , by a summary report , which will include a detailed statement on methods .
With this evidence in mind , the writer began to plan how he might more effectively educate the married students in his functional classes .
A few were doubtful about the merits of an exclusive section for married students .
This experimental class represented quite a variety of students .
One might digress at this point and speculate that if it is `` wise '' to create special sections for special status , then why not a special section for women pregnant before marriage , and one for 44-year-old men with teenage children , and so on .
The writer began this special class by explaining his background thinking for creating such a section in the first place .
Films were used , as with all sections , but with one big difference .
Though it did not become known to the writer for some time , a nucleus group had sprung up within the class .
Supplemental outside reading reports were handled just as in the other sections , the major difference being that there was a noticeably deeper level in the reported outside reading by the married group .
In the main , this course took the following directional high roads .
As an example of this last facet , there were some lengthy discussions centered around bereavement .
Quite frequently class members brought questions from their mates at home .
Both sexes reported that the discussions on sex adjustment within marriage were extremely enlightening .
In the reproductive area it could be readily observed that all felt freer to discuss things than students had previously in `` mixed '' marital status sections .
Thus it is reasonable to believe that there is a significant difference between the two groups in their performance on this task after a brief `` structuring '' experience .
It was predicted that Kohnstamm-negative subjects would adhere to more liberal , concretistic reports of what the ambiguous figure `` looked like '' as reflecting their hesitancy about taking chances .
The three personality inventories ( Guilford ; ;
Only Co differentiated between the two groups at less than the 5% level ( Af ) .
One prediction had been made about the difference in security or self-confidence between those subjects who shifted their Kohnstamm reactivity when informed and those who did not .
level .
Discussion
Among this latter group there were also differences in the amount and kind of information necessary before a shift in reaction occurred .
The positive Kohnstamm reactivity in Condition 1 ( ( the naive state ) is not adequately explained by such a concept as suggestibility ( if suggestibility is defined as the influence on behavior by verbal cues ) .
A suggestion Hypothesis also seems inadequate as an explanation for those who shifted their reactions after they were informed of the possibilities of `` normal '' reactions different from those which they gave .
The naive state , Condition 1 , , could therefore be viewed as an inhibiting one for 24% of the subjects in this study .
Alcohol ingestion succeeded in changing immobility to mobility quite strikingly in one pilot subject ( the only one with whom this technique was tried ) .
Many subjects attributed differences in Kohnstamm reactivity to differences in degrees of subjective control -- voluntary as the Kohnstamm-positive subjects perceived it and involuntary as the Kohnstamm-negative subjects perceived it .
The above discussion does not mean to imply that control factors were completely in abeyance in the Kohnstamm-positive subjects ; ;
It is our hypothesis that Kohnstamm-positive subjects are less hesitant about relinquishing control than are Kohnstamm-negative subjects ; ;
While the interpretations that have been given are inferences only , they gain support from such comments as the following , which was made by one of the Kohnstamm-negative subjects who did not , on the first trial , perceive the tilt illusion .
Control of socioeconomic status
For purposes of sample selection only ( individual tests were given later ) we obtained group test scores of reading achievement and intelligence from school records of the entire third-grade population in each school system .
It was assumed that the sampling procedure was purely random with respect to the personality variables under investigation .
The rating scale of compulsivity was constructed by first perusing the interview records , categorizing all evidence related to compulsivity , then arranging a distribution of such information apart from the case records .
The Stanford Achievement Test , Form J , was administered by classroom teachers , consisting of a battery of six sub-tests : Paragraph Meaning , Word Meaning , Spelling , Language , Arithmetic Computation , and Arithmetic Reasoning .
The Wechsler Intelligence Scale For Children was administered to each sample third-grade child by a clinical worker .
The criterion score used in the statistical analysis is an index of over- or under-achievement .
Results
While we had expected that compulsive children in the unstructured school setting would have difficulty when compared to those in the structured , we were surprised to find that the achievement of the high compulsives within the schools where the whole-word method is used in beginning reading compares favorably with that of the low compulsives .
It is interesting to note that medium compulsives in the unstructured schools made the lowest achievement scores ( although not significantly lower ) .
Our conjecture is , then , that regardless of the manner in which school lessons are taught , the compulsive child accentuates those elements of each lesson that aid him in systematizing his work .
The most striking aspect of the interaction demonstrated is the marked decrement in performance suffered by the highly anxious children in unstructured schools .
The individual with high anxiety in the structured classroom may approach the learning task with the same increased energy and lowered powers of discrimination .
Sarason et al present evidence that the anxious child will suffer in the test-like situation , and that his performance will be impaired unless he receives supporting and accepting treatment from the teacher .
Analysis
Roleplaying was offered as a solution -- and the procedure worked as follows : all candidates were invited to a hotel conference room , where the president explained the difficulty he had , and how unnecessary it seemed to him to hire people who just did not work out .
In the testing room , three of the veteran salesmen served as antagonists .
Ten salesmen were tested in the morning and ten more in the afternoon .
The reason for the value of this procedure was simply that the applicants were tested `` at work '' in different situations by the judgment of a number of experts who could see how the salesmen conducted themselves with different , but typical restaurant owners and managers .
From the point of view of the applicants , less time was wasted in being evaluated -- and they got a meal out of it as well as some insights into their performances .
Another use of roleplaying for evaluation illustrates how this procedure can be used in real life situations without special equipment or special assistants during the daily course of work .
The position of receptionist was opened in a large office and an announcement was made to the other girls already working that they could apply for this job which had higher prestige and slightly higher salary than typing and clerking positions .
Somewhat to his surprise he found that one girl , whom he would never have considered for the job since she had appeared somewhat mousy and also had been in the office a relatively short time , did the most outstanding job of playing the role of receptionist , showing wit , sparkle , and aplomb .
An engineer had been made the works manager of a firm , supplanting a retired employee who had been considered outstandingly successful .
He played a number of typical situations before observers , other supervisors who kept notes and then explained to him in detail what he did they thought was wrong .
One by one , these errors were discussed and one by one he rejected accepting them as errors .
We may say that his problem was diagnosed but that he refused treatment .
Another case may be given in illustration of a successful use of analysis , and also of the employment of a procedure for intensive analysis .
The director helped tailor-make a check list of the district manager's errors by asking various observers to write out sentences commenting on the mistakes they felt he made .
The manager sat behind the group so he could see and count the hands that went up , and the director wrote the numbers on the blackboard .
The first eight of these eighteen statements , which received at least one-half of the votes , were duplicated to form an analysis checklist for the particular manager , and when this particular manager roleplayed in other situations , the members checked any items that appeared .
After every session , the check marks were totaled up and graphed , and in this way the supervisor's progress was charted .
When an evaluative situation is set up , and no concern is with the details that lead to an over-all estimate , we say that roleplaying is used for evaluation .
While roleplaying for testing is not too well understood at the present time , it represents one of the major uses of this procedure .
Chapter 10 , spontaneity training
Spontaneity training theory is unique and relatively new .
It is not easy for the therapist to discern when , in the patient's communicating , an introject has appeared and is holding sway .
One hebephrenic woman often became submerged in what felt to me like a somehow phony experience of pseudo-emotion , during which , despite her wracking sobs and streaming cheeks , I felt only a cold annoyance with her .
At another phase in the therapy , when a pathogenic mother-introject began to emerge more and more upon the investigative scene , she muttered in a low but intense voice , to herself , `` I hate that woman inside me '' ! !
Earlier , this woman had been so filled with a chaotic variety of introjects that at times , when she was in her room alone , it would sound to a passerby as though there were several different persons in the room , as she would vocalize in various kinds of voice .
Particularly hard for the therapist to grasp are those instances in which the patient is manifesting an introject traceable to something in the therapist , some aspect of the therapist of which the latter is himself only poorly aware , and the recognition of which , as a part of himself , he finds distinctly unwelcome .
Another patient , a paranoid woman , for many months infuriated not only me but the ward-personnel and her fellow patients by arrogantly behaving as though she owned the whole building , as though she were the only person in it whose needs were to be met .
4 .
Here a variety of meanings and emotions are concentrated , or reduced , in their communicative expression , to some comparatively simple-seeming verbal or nonverbal statement .
One finds , for example , that a terse and stereotyped verbal expression , seeming at first to be a mere hollow convention , reveals itself over the months of therapy as the vehicle for expressing the most varied and intense feelings , and the most unconventional of meanings .
Sometimes it is not a verbal stereotype -- a `` How are you now '' ? ?
Of all the possible forms of nonverbal expression , that which seems best to give release , and communicational expression , to complex and undifferentiated feelings is laughter .
As I have been intimating , in the schizophrenic -- and perhaps also in the dreams of the neurotic ; ;
In my experience , a great many of the patient's more puzzling verbal communications are so for the reason that concrete meanings have not become differentiated from figurative meanings in his subjective experience .
Of such hidden meanings the patient himself is , more often than not , entirely unaware .
The many linguistic techniques for reducing the amount of dictionary information that have been proposed all organize the dictionary's contents around prefixes , stems , suffixes , etc. .
We suggest the application of certain data-processing techniques as a solution to the problem .
We propose a method for selecting only dictionary information required by the text being translated and a means for passing the information directly to the occurrences in text .
The dictionary is a form dictionary , at least in the sense that complete forms are used as the basis for matching text occurrences with dictionary entries .
Text lookup , as we will describe it , consists of three steps .
When an occurrence Af is isolated during text reading , a random memory address Af , the address of a cell in the X-region , is computed from the form of Af .
Let us assume that Af is identical to the form of an occurrence Af which preceded Af in the text .
A third situation is possible .
Text reading is terminated when a pre-determined number of forms have been stored in the text-form list .
Each dictionary form is looked up in the text-form list by the same method used to look up a new text occurrence in the form list during text reading .
These two steps essentially complete the lookup operation .
The first stage of translation after glossary lookup is structural analysis of the input text .
The grammatical descriptions of all forms in the dictionary are recorded in a separate part of the dictionary file .
The only requirements on dictionary information made by the text-lookup operation are that each form represented by the dictionary be available for lookup in the text-form list and that information for each form be available in a sequence identical with the sequence of the forms .
Two very useful ways for modifying a form-dictionary are the addition to the dictionary of complete paradigms rather than single forms and the application of a single change to more than one dictionary form .
If all forms of a paradigm are grouped together within the dictionary , a considerable reduction in the amount of information required is possible .
In sentences , patterns of stress are determined by complex combinations of influences that can only be suggested here .
Context is of extreme importance .
Often , dominant stress simply indicates a centering of attention or emotion .
When a word represents a larger construction of which it is the only expressed part , it normally has more stress than it would have in fully expressed construction .
It is clear that patterns of stress sometimes show construction unambiguously in the spoken language where without the help of context it would be ambiguous in the written .
Syllabification .
-- Syllables are linguistic units centering in peaks which are usually vocalic but , as has been noted , are consonantal under certain circumstances , and which may or may not be combined with preceding and/or following consonants or combinations of consonants .
It is obvious enough that linguists in general have been less successful in coping with tone systems than with consonants or vowels .
The first is a wide-ranging sample of successful tonal analyses .
The second need is better field techniques .
The third need is for better theory .
One issue that must be faced is the relative difficulty of analysis of different phonologic subsystems .
Welmers has suggested one explanation .
A second explanation is suggested by the material described in Rowlands' paper .
A third explanation is suggested by Richardson's analysis of Sukuma tone .
In the `` typical tone language '' , tonal morphophonemics is of the same order of complexity as consonantal morphophonemics .
The difficulty of analysis of any subsystem in the phonology is an inverse function of the size -- smaller systems are more troublesome -- for any given degree of morphophonemic complexity .
The design of orthographies has received much less attention from linguists than the problem deserves .
A. E. Sharp , in Vowel-Length And Syllabicity In Kikuyu , examines one set of related orthographic questions and its phonologic background in detail .
One other paper deals with a phonologic problem : Vowel Harmony In Igbo , by J. Carnochan .
Five of the papers deal with grammatical problems .
W. H. Whiteley writes on The Verbal Radical In Iraqw .
There are more stems per item in Athabascan , which expresses the fact that the Athabascan languages have undergone somewhat more change in diverging from proto-Athabascan than the Yokuts languages from proto-Yokuts .
The greatest difference in the two sets of figures is due to differences in the two sets of lists used .
Other classes are included only by myself ( interrogatives , adverbs ) or only by Swadesh and Hoijer ( pronouns , demonstratives ) .
What we have left as reasonably comparable are four classes : ( 1 ) body parts and products , which with a proportionally nearly even representation ( 51 terms out of 253 , 25 out of 100 ) come out with nearly even ratios ; ;
It will be seen that where the scope is similar , the Athabascan ratios come out somewhat higher ( as indeed they ought to with a total ratio of 2.8 as against 3.5 or 4 : 5 ) except for verbs , where alone the Athabascan ratio is lower .
5 .
If word classes differ in their resistance or liability to stem replacement within meaning slot , it is conceivable that individual meanings also differ with fair consistence trans-lingually .
When now we count the frequency of the 71 items in the two language families appearing in the same column or grade , or one column or grade apart , or two or three or four , we find these differences : Af
.
6 .
In 1960 , David D. Thomas published Basic Vocabulary In some Mon-Khmer Languages ( AL 2 , No. 3 , pp. 7 - 11 ) , which compares 8 Mon-Khmer languages with the I-E language data on which Swadesh based the revised retention rate ( Af ) in place of original ( Af ) , and his revised 100 word basic glottochronological list in Towards Greater Accuracy ( IJAL 21 : :
Thomas also presents a simple equation for deriving an index of persistence , which weights not only the number of stems ( ' roots ' ) per meaning , but their relative frequency .
As to relative frequencies of competing roots ( 7 - 1 vs. 4 - 4 , etc. ) , Thomas with his ' weighting ' seems to be the first to have considered the significance this might have .
7 .
These findings , and others which will in time be developed , will affect the method of glottochronological inquiry .
It is evident that Swadesh has not only had much experience with basic vocabulary in many languages but has acquired great tact and feeling for the expectable behavior of lexical items .
The practical operational problem of lexicostatistics is the establishment of a basic list of items of meaning against which the particular forms or terms of languages can be matched as the medium of comparison .
With the universal list as his weapon , Swadesh has extended his march of conquest farther and farther into the past , eight , ten , twelve millennia back .
8 .
There is no apparent reason why we should feel bound by Swadesh's rules and procedure since his predilections and aims have grown so vast .
I would propose , first , an abandonment of attempts at a universal lexical list , as intrinsically unachievable , and operationally inadequate in proportion as it is achieved .
I would propose , next , as the prime requirement for constitution of new basic lists , items whose forms show as high an empirical retention rate as possible .
Doubtless it was inevitable that differences of opinion should arise about the methods for applying these policies .
5 .
When the Yalta Conference opened , the American policy of postponing all discussion of Russia's western boundaries until the peace conference had broken down .
The West was now glad to propose the 1919 Curzon Line , which was substantially Russia's 1941 border , as the boundary between Russia and Poland .
Yet after long and earnest discussion Stalin accepted the Curzon Line and even agreed voluntarily that there should be digressions from that line of five to eight kilometers in favor of Poland in some regions .
In the Dunn-Atherton memorandum of February 4 , 1942 , the State Department had expected to be able to hold Russia in check by withholding agreement to her 1941 boundaries .
By this time Churchill was not so cordial toward moving Poland westward as he had been at Teheran , where he and Eden had both heartily approved the idea .
The issue was left in abeyance , presumably for the peace conference .
Of more importance to the West than Poland's boundaries was the character of her government .
The issue was acute because the exiled Polish Government in London , supported in the main by Britain , was still competing with the new Lublin Government formed behind the Red Army .
Roosevelt acted as moderator of the long debate on this issue .
In other words , the Soviet Union was determined to create a Poland so strong as to be a powerful bulwark against Germany and so closely tied to Russia that there would never be any question of her serving as a cordon sanitaire against the Soviets or posing as an independent , balancing power in between Russia and Germany .
6 .
Professor McNeill thinks that at Yalta , Stalin did not fully realize the dilemma which faced him , that he thought the exclusion of the anti-Soviet voters from East European elections would not be greatly resented by his allies , while neither Roosevelt nor Churchill frankly faced `` the fact that , in Poland at least , genuinely free democratic elections would return governments unfriendly to Russia '' , by any definition of international friendliness .
The application of these formulae could not please both sides , for they really attempted to marry the impossible to the inevitable .
This illusion was described in a far-sighted editorial in The New York Herald Tribune , on March 5 , 1947 , in connection with the submission of the satellite peace treaties to the Senate .
.
Here is the best short explanation of the origins of the Cold War that has been written .
Years of war , strain , and hatred ; ;
While the Cold War raged it was easy to blame it all on Yalta .
An analysis of the election falls naturally in four parts .
Elections have figured prominently in nearly every government program and official address since independence .
From the very beginning the electoral discussions raised fundamental issues in Moroccan politics , precisely the type of questions that were most difficult to resolve in the new government .
The Ifni crisis in the fall of 1957 postponed further consideration of elections , but French consultants were called in and notices of further investigation appeared from time to time .
Despite the internal and international crises that harassed Morocco the elections remained a central issue .
From the rather tortuous history of electoral planning in Morocco an important point emerges concerning the first elections in a developing country and evaluating their results .
At the central level the scrutin uninominal voting system was selected over some form of the scrutin de liste system , even though the latter had been recommended by Duverger and favored by all political parties .
The general setting of the Moroccan election may also encourage the deterioration of local party organization .
The Chamber of Commerce elections were , of course , an important event in the preparation for rural commune elections .
A second major point of this essay is to examine the formal arrangements for the elections .
The bulk of the preparation had , of course , proceeded under the supervision of the Ministry of the Interior , whose officials are barred from party activity and probably generally disinterested in party politics .
.
The registration figures given in Table 2 must be interpreted with caution since the estimate for eligible electors were made without the benefit of a reliable census .
Unemployed older workers who have no expectation of securing employment in the occupation in which they are skilled should be able to secure counseling and retraining in an occupation with a future .
The latest major change in this program was introduced by the National Defense Education Act of 1958 , Title 8 , of which amended the George-Barden Act .
The Federal program of vocational education merely provides financial aid to encourage the establishment of vocational education programs in public schools .
Federal assistance is limited to half of the total expenditure , and the state or local districts must pay at least half .
National defense considerations have been the major reason behind most Federal training expenditures in recent decades .
No comparable measures are available of enrollments and expenditures for private vocational education training .
Most skilled industrial workers , nevertheless , still acquire their skills outside of formal training institutions .
There is little doubt that the students benefit from vocational education .
In most states , trade and industrial training is provided in a minority of the high schools , usually located in the larger cities .
An important recent trend is the development of area vocational schools .
The Title 8 , program of the National Defense Education Act of 1958 was a great spur to this trend toward area schools .
The major training need of a new industrial plant is a short period of pre-employment training for a large number of semi-skilled machine operators .
The existence of a public school vocational training program in trade and industry provides a base from which such needs can be filled .
Few states make effective use of their existing vocational education programs or funds for the purpose of attracting new industry .
Planning of vocational education programs and courses is oriented to local employer needs for trained workers .
Furthermore , there is a cautious conservatism on the part of those making local skill surveys .
While the U. S. Department of Labor has a program of projecting industry and occupational employment trends and publishing current outlook statements , there is little tangible evidence that these projections have been used extensively in local curriculum planning .
This procedure is extremely shortsighted in chronic labor surplus areas with a long history of declining employment .
Moreover , the current information on what types of training are needed and possible is too limited and fragmentary .
A related question is whether unemployed workers can be motivated to take the training provided .
A training program in a depressed area may have few enrollees unless there is some apparent prospect for better employment opportunities afterwards , and the prospect may be poor if the training is aimed solely at jobs in the local community .
Another problem is who will pay for the training .
If only state funds were used to pay for the vocational education , it could be argued that the state should not have to bear the cost of vocational training which would benefit employers in other states .
A further possibility is suggested by the example of the G. I. bills and also by some recent trends in attitudes toward improving college education : that is to provide financial assistance to individuals for vocational training when local facilities are inadequate .
A program of financial assistance would permit placing emphasis on the national interest in training highly skilled labor .
Personal financial assistance would enable more emphasis to be placed on the interests of the individual .
But briefly , the topping configuration must be examined for its inferences .
The advantages and disadvantages of these two types of charting , bar charting and point and figure charting , remain the subject of fairly good-natured litigation among their respective professional advocates , with both methods enjoying in common , one irrevocable merit .
Of course , many more things are charted besides prices .
But the quest for such an index goes on ceaselessly , with all manner of investors and speculators participating , ranging from the sedate institutional type virtually to the proverbial shoe-string operator , all seeking doggedly , studiously , daily -- and often nightly -- for the enchanting index that will foretell the eternal secret : Which way will the market move -- up or down ? ?
There sit men who make moving averages of weekly volume , monthly averages of price-earnings ratios , ratios of the number of advances to the number of declines , ratios of an individual stock's performance to overall market performance , ratios of rising price volume to falling price volume , odd-lot indices , and what not .
And along Chicago's West Jackson Boulevard , La Salle Street , and around the Merchandise Mart Plaza there sit men who chart crop reports , who divide the number of reported lady-bugs by the number of reported green-bugs , and the number of hogs by the amount of corn .
The markets are far too subtle , and the last word in these endeavors will doubtless never be written , for the enchanting index is about as nebulous as the fountain of youth .
But whereas civilized men no longer pursue the fountain , they never abandoned their pursuit of the enchanting index .
We mentioned odd-lot indices a few paragraphs ago .
According to the theory underlying odd-lot indices , the trader who trades odd lots is most likely a small trader , one who can't afford to trade round lots .
Figures reporting the volume of odd-lot purchases and odd-lot sales are released by the stock exchange and carried in the newspapers .
Towards the end of an intermediate or major rise , while the top is forming on the price chart , it is frequently observed that the odd-lot buying increases sharply .
While it had long been known in general , that `` the public is always wrong '' , the use of odd-lot indices now puts the adage on a statistical basis .
One might well wonder why the `` public is always wrong '' and the question raised is about as awkward as the one concerned with the chicken and the egg .
We have been using the word `` public '' in quotation marks , that is , in its vernacular connotation with reference to the odd-lot index theory .
This element is often called `` strong hands '' .
Certain badly disillusioned market critics are often apt to feel that there is something somehow unfair , dirty , or even thoroughly criminal about this interplay of competitive forces .
Moreover , the taunt concerning the `` sophisticated '' echelon and its alleged erudition is put to test during every campaign , and accrues only upon results ; ;
The study of odd-lot indices is somehow akin to the spectacle of a man trying to outfox his own shadow , what with all observers trying to get on the side of the `` few '' at the same time .
Diametric opposition must persist as to the future course of prices , if there is to persist a market at all .
Mr. John Magee , whose work has been discussed in this chapter , was quoted in a New Yorker Magazine profile as saying : `` Of course , you have to remember it's a good thing for us chartists that there aren't more of us .
Mr. Alexander H. Wheelan's Study Helps In Point And Figure Technique tells the readers : `` We assure you that the total number of people using this method of market analysis is a very small portion of the sum total of those operating in the securities and commodities markets '' .
What with traders trading for so many different objectives , and what with there being so many unique and individualized market theories and trading techniques in use , and more coming into use all the time , it is hard to imagine how any particular theory or technique could acquire enough `` fans '' to invalidate itself .
Chapter 6 , more methods
In assessing the outlook for interest rates in 1961 , the question , as always , is the prospect for general business activity .
Nineteen-sixty has been a baffling year for analysts of general business activity .
Although the pause in the advance of general business activity this year has thus far been quite modest , it is hard to escape the conclusion that the softening process will continue into the first quarter of 1961 and possibly somewhat longer .
The pattern of general business activity which probably lies ahead of us is a further moderate softening through the spring of 1961 before a new rise in economic activity gets under way .
Slight downward pressure
If the trend of general business activity follows the pattern suggested here , we are likely to see additional steps by the Federal Reserve authorities to ease the availability of credit .
Open market policy
By the end of the spring of 1961 , assuming that a general business recovery gets under way , interest rates should begin to edge upward again , depending upon the vigor of the recovery and the determination with which the monetary authorities move to restrain credit availability .
It is pertinent to ask the question : Has the long upswing of interest rates during the past 15 years just about run its course , and are we now entering a period in which both capital market forces and Federal policies will produce a prolonged decline of interest rates ? ?
Five basic forces
Sixties' capital requirements
Wage-price policies of industry are the result of a complex of forces -- no single explanation has been found which applies to all cases .
The model of this paper considers an industry which is not characterized by vigorous price competition , but which is so basic that its wage-price policies are held in check by continuous critical public scrutiny .
In order to focus clearly upon the operation of this one force , which we may call the effect of `` public-limit pricing '' on `` key '' wage bargains , we deliberately simplify the model by abstracting from other forces , such as union power , which may be relevant in an actual situation .
Part 1 , below describes this abstract model by spelling out its assumptions .
1 , the assumptions of the model
The form of the industry demand function is one which makes quantity demanded vary inversely with the product price , and vary directly with the level of Aj .
For such an industry , it is only `` safe '' to raise its price if such an increase is manifestly `` justified '' by rising costs ( due to rising wages , etc. ) .
Since marginal costs rise when the wage rate rises , the profit-maximizing price also rises when the public-limit price is elevated , and is likely to remain well above the latter .
Whether or not it is in the industry's interest to allow the basic wage rate to rise obviously depends upon the extent to which the public-limit price rises in response to a basic wage increase , and the relation of this response to the increase in costs accompanying the wage increase .
We are abstracting from the fact of strikes here , but it should be obvious that the extent to which the public-limit price is raised by a given increase in the basic wage rate is also a function of the show of resistance put up by the industry .
Public indignation and resistance to wage-price increases is obviously much less when the increases are on the order of 3% per annum than when the increases are on the order of 3% per month .
The union vigorously demands wage increases from productivity increases , and wage increases to offset cost-of-living increases , but we abstract from these forces here .
We assume further that the union recognizes the possibility that price-level increases may offset wage-rate increases , and it does not entirely disregard the effect of price increases arising from its own wage increases upon the `` real '' wage rate .
Changes in the basic wage rate are cost-raising , and they constitute an argument for raising prices .
2 , the operation of the model
In the century from 1815 to 1914 the law of nations became international law .
The Congress of Vienna is a convenient starting point because it both epitomized and symbolized what was to follow .
It was not always easy to develop theory and doctrine which would square the two conditions .
This Europeanization of the law was made explicit by a number of 19th century scholars .
A number of other nineteenth-century developments contributed to the transmutation of the law of nations into international law ; ;
To appreciate this development , we must relate it to other aspects of nineteenth-century philosophy .
Hidden behind Hegelian abstractions were more practical reasons for a changing jurisprudence .
In municipal systems we tend to view what is called positivism as fundamentally a movement to democratize policy by increasing the power of parliament -- the elected representatives -- at the expense of the more conservative judiciary .
Particularly was this true as laissez-faire capitalism became the dominant credo of Western society .
The displacement ( at least to a considerable extent ) of the ethical jurisprudence of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries by positivism reshaped both international law theory and doctrine .
Mr. Justice Black was one of the minority that rested on the Article 1 , power .
Federal question jurisdiction
Meanwhile , the Supreme Court , like Congress , showed misgivings concerning this aspect of government by injunction .
Temporary abstention , i.e. , postponement , is one thing ; ;
Justices Frankfurter and Jackson concurred in the Court's result , for they found no merit in the railroad's claim .
`` By one fell swoop the Court now finds that Congress indulged in needless legislation in the acts of 1910 , 1913 , 1925 , 1934 and 1937 .
A most revealing recent case is Textile Workers Union v. Lincoln Mills .
The Lincoln Mills decision authorizes a whole new body of federal `` common law '' which , as Mr. Justice Frankfurter pointed out in dissent , leads to one of the following `` incongruities '' : `` ( ( 1 ) conflict in federal and state court interpretations of collective bargaining agreements ; ;
There is a common problem behind most of these federal question and diversity cases .
Federal review of state decisions
We consider here only a few of many problems involved in this crucial federal-state relationship .
Another problem in the area of federal-state relationships is this : what constitutes reversible error in a state decision ? ?
How else can one explain , for example , allowing the survival of the right to amortize bond discount and premium ( section 381(c)(9) ) , but not the right to amortize bond issue expenses ; ;
These items , and most of the others listed above , seem quite comparable to items whose right of survival is provided for in section 381 .
It is not contended that section 381 should prescribe the survival of all of the transferor's tax attributes .
Refund claims
A clearly recognized exception is a statutory merger or consolidation .
A tax-free reorganization not complying with the merger or consolidation statutes of the states involved is difficult to fit into an `` operation of law '' mold .
In an earlier case , Kingan & Co. v. United States , an American corporation was formed for the purpose of acquiring the stock of a British corporation in exchange for its own stock and then liquidating the British corporation .
The Treasury arrives at substantially the same conclusion , but skirts the problem of section 203 of the United States Code .
In a B reorganization , followed by a section 332 liquidation , those cases which hold that section 203 is inapplicable to transfers in liquidation appear to permit the successor corporation to sue for refund of taxes paid by the transferor .
These results appear sound .
Nor is it at all likely that a `` desperate '' claim against the Government will be assigned on a contingent-fee basis in the guise of a tax-free reorganization .
It appears , then , that although the matter is not dealt with in section 381(c) , a successor corporation in a reorganization of a type specified in section 381(a) is entitled to sue for refund of taxes paid by a transferor corporation .
Other tax attributes of the transferor
Other sections of the 1954 Internal Revenue Code provide for survival of certain of a transferor's tax attributes following a tax-free reorganization .
There may be certain items which are quite similar to a net operating loss carryover or operating deficit and whose right to survive a reorganization should perhaps be subject to the conditions applicable to those items .
Since this type of item was not in the statute when section 381 was enacted in 1954 , one cannot say with certainty what effect the enactment of that section should have .
Actually , there do not presently appear to be items in the statute comparable to a net operating loss carryover .
A .
While the method of interviewing a small number of companies was appealing because of the opportunity it might have furnished to probe fully the reasons and circumstances of a company's practices and opinions , it also involved the risk of paying undue attention to the unique and peculiar problems of just a few individual companies .
It is recognized that a mail questionnaire has inherent limitations .
There is also the question of whether the respondent based his answers on factual information and carefully considered judgment , or whether his answers were casual guesses .
The research team was very mindful of these dangers and limitations of a mail questionnaire .
B .
The major sections of the questionnaire ( see Appendix B ) are devoted to the following : 1 .
Information for classifying respondents ( Part A of the questionnaire ) 2 .
Characteristics of defense sales activities ( Part B of the questionnaire ) 3 .
Respondents' practices in participating in advertised bidding for defense business ( Part C of the questionnaire ) 4 .
Respondents' practices in participating in negotiated bidding for defense purposes ( Part D of the questionnaire ) 5 .
Respondents' opinions regarding advertised bidding ( Part E of the questionnaire ) 6 .
Respondents' opinions regarding negotiated bidding ( Part F of the questionnaire ) 7 .
Respondents' preferences regarding the methods of awarding defense contracts ( Part G of the questionnaire )
The questionnaire provided a place for the name of the respondent but stated that identification of the respondent was optional .
C .
The research team was concerned that responses from firms in the state of Washington might not be typical of those throughout the country , or that the results might be different when no phone or personal follow-up was made .
Ten days after the questionnaires were mailed , follow-up airmail postcards were sent urging those companies which had not yet returned their questionnaires to do so at once .
D .
Three lists of companies were made and used in the study .
The first was a list of fourteen manufacturing companies located in the state of Washington which were personally known to the research team to be active in defense work .
The second list was derived from a group of approximately 8,000 names supplied to the research team by the Aerospace Industries Association .
The forty-four lists supplied by the AIA member companies were merged and duplicate names were eliminated .
The third list was selected by the research team on a random basis from the Thomas Register .
The fact that the Aerospace Industries Association members whose lists were used did not comprise all firms engaged in defense programs .
The fact that companies on the AIA lists were already participating in the defense program because of the manner of their selection .
The fact that AIA lists might not have been selected on a random basis .
The control sample was selected by taking the bottom name of each of the two columns of names on each page of the alphabetical listing of manufacturers in the Thomas Register .
E .
Each letter contained a postage-prepaid return envelope by regular mail for addresses in the Pacific Northwest , and by airmail for those outside the Pacific Northwest .
The first test mailing ( to 14 companies ) was made in June , 1960 .
F .
G .
The first step in processing was to analyze the returns from Questions 1 , 2 , and 3 to determine whether the respondents were large businesses or small businesses , in accordance with the definitions contained in ASPR Section 1-701 .
The returns from companies classified as large businesses were set aside and not used because they were not relevant to a study of the opinions and practices of small firms .
The second step in processing was to compare the responses from companies on the AIA list with those from companies on the TR list in order to determine whether it would be appropriate to merge the responses for the purposes of the study .
The vast Central Valley of California is one of the most productive agricultural areas in the world .
The contestants in this economic struggle are the Agricultural Workers Organizing Committee ( AWOC ) of the AFL-CIO and the agricultural employers of the State .
Inevitably , one side was pleased and the other displeased , regardless of how we ruled .
For a number of years , there have been sporadic attempts in California to organize farm workers .
As a result of these changed conditions , the impact of the organizational effort on agricultural labor-management relations has been much greater than in the past .
By the very nature of the situation , it is the union which has been able to select the time and place to bring pressure upon management .
Primarily , we became involved in these disputes because of our referral obligations under our farm placement program .
Most of us remember and think of the Wagner-Peyser Act in its historical sense , as a major milestone in the development of public placement services .
The State of California accepts the provisions of the Wagner-Peyser Act , and will observe and comply with the requirements of that act .
With respect to labor disputes , the Wagner-Peyser Act states only ,
In carrying out the provisions of this Act , the Secretary is authorized and directed to provide for the giving of notice of strikes or lock-outs to applicants before they are referred to employment .
Other provisions of the Act empower the Secretary to adopt regulations necessary to carry out its provisions , and he has done so .
Referrals in labor dispute situations .
In analyzing this regulation , let us take the last sentence first .
It is the first part of the Regulation that is currently at issue .
Into court
The growers have strenuously argued that I should have accepted the Superior Court decisions as conclusive and issued statewide instructions to our staff to ignore this provision in the Secretary's Regulation .
Legal considerations
But over and beyond the compelling need for a binding precedent decision , I am convinced that the decisions of the Superior Courts which in effect nullify the Secretary's Regulation are not a correct interpretation of the Secretary's power under the Federal law .
Next , let us consider briefly the program and administrative implications of a failure on our part to pursue our appeals .
There is far too much at stake for all of the parties concerned to leave the matter hanging in midair .
As an administrator , I cannot place the Employment Service in California in jeopardy of being out of compliance with the Federal laws by my failure to pursue the avenues of appeal open to me .
Thus far , the cases which have come before the courts have involved only the issue of referral where the job is vacant due to a strike -- condition ( 1 ) in the Regulation of the Secretary .
Here the problem is essentially one of defining the word `` filling '' .
Because of the uncertainty of this definition , I solicited the interpretation of the Secretary of Labor .
9 .
Martin and Stendler present evidence that infants and young children can and do solve many problems at a relatively simple perceptual level simply by combining objects and counting them .
Many studies indicate that elementary-school children's interests cover the whole field of science ; ;
Concerning this responsibility of the teacher , suggestions for helping children gain better control of the emotions are presented in Chapter 11 .
Typically , the young child's emotional reactions last for a relatively short time , as contrasted to those of an adult .
As the child grows older , his emotional reactions lead to `` moods '' , or emotional states drawn out over a period of time and expressed slowly , rather than in short , abrupt outbursts .
Studies of the growth and decline of children's fears indicate that fears due to strange objects , noises , falling , and unexpected movement decline during the preschool years , but that fears of the dark , of being alone , and of imaginary creatures or robbers increase .
Ridiculing a child for being afraid or forcing him to meet the feared situation alone are poor ways of dealing with the problem ; ;
Children need help in learning to control their emotions .
Children differ widely in their emotional responses .
During early childhood , children are more interested in the approval of their parents and teachers than they are in the approval of other children ; ;
In early childhood the choice of a companion is likely to be for another child of his own age or a year or two older , who can do the things he likes to do ; ;
In later childhood , an interest in team games replaces individual play ; ;
During early childhood boys tease and bully , on the average , more than girls ; ;
During late childhood boys like to tease , jostle , and talk smart to girls ; ;
By the time pupils reach the sixth grade , their ethical and moral standards are fairly well developed ; ;
Between the ages of two and four years , negativism or resistance to adult authority is noticeable ; ;
The elementary-school child grows gradually in his ability to work in groups .
Why the teacher should study the individual pupil
Many school systems now employ school psychologists and child guidance specialists .
Teachers and administrators in many elementary schools have assumed that dividing the pupils in any grade into groups on the basis of test scores solves the problem of meeting the needs of individuals .
It is easy for the teacher to rationalize that the child who is not achieving in accordance with his known ability is just plain lazy , or that the child who lacks interest in school , who dislikes the teacher , or who is overaggressive is a hopeless delinquent .
Sources of information about children
The Summary Report On Desegregation Progress In Education In The Middle-South Region , 1959 - 1960 '' clearly shows two pieces of information .
The Middle-South Region , as defined by the National Association of Intergroup Relations Officials ( NAIRO ) , consists of the states of Kentucky , Maryland , Tennessee , West Virginia , Delaware , Virginia and the District of Columbia .
Desegregation and court order
Additional school desegregation in Tennessee resulted from a court order opening a school serving children of military personnel .
As in Maryland , a District court has approved an official plan of school desegregation in Delaware .
In Virginia court orders led to desegregation in Charlottesville and Floyd Counties .
As a school district , the District of Columbia has had desegregated schools since 1954 , shortly after the Supreme Court decision .
This recapitulation makes it clear that school desegregation continues , including the Old Dominion State , in spite of its stern resistance .
Before turning to my views as to the problems and issues before us at this Regional Conference , I wish to note a small item in the Summary Report as it refers to the District of Columbia .
The sharpest break with tradition , the past and present of `` White Ring Around a Black Core '' , may come with the opening of nearby Montgomery County suburbs to Negro residents and , presumably , the consequent conclusion of some whites that they cannot escape the Negro by fleeing to the suburbs .
Problems to solve
First , how can we step up the desegregation movement ? ?
Second , as we increase the number of desegregated school districts and schools themselves , how can we achieve this action through school board action ? ?
Third , how can we insure a systematic and continuing group relations education in the schools ? ?
Fourth , in the segregated school system , during the period before desegregation , how can we assure equal opportunity ? ?
Fifth , in the segregated school system or in the all-Negro or all-white schools , how can we encourage better group relations or an improved attitude toward people who do not belong to the group ? ?
Now , the issues
Since on the one hand school desegregation has come in Virginia hand-in-glove with pupil assignment , shall we support the plan ? ?
In large cities like Baltimore , Louisville , and Washington , D.C. , should school desegregation be extended to all-Negro and all-white schools by assigning white and Negro teachers , respectively ? ?
The earlier part of my statement deals with the court orders that resulted in desegregation .
This is the Powell Amendment , which in 1957 divided even a `` liberal '' group like the American Veterans Committee ( AVC ) .
Should a political subdivision , state or county or municipality , be required to furnish public education ? ?
If the above issue is settled by requiring public education for all citizens , Issue No. 6 may be moot .
The next question is whether board members favor their own social classes in their roles as educational policy-makers .
The few cases of clear favoritism along social-class lines are as likely as not to involve representatives of the working class on the school board who favor some such practice as higher wages for janitors rather than pay increases for teachers , and such issues are not issues of educational policy .
In general , it appears that trustees and board members attempt to represent the public interest in their administration of educational policy , and this is made easier by the fact that the dominant values of the society are middle-class values , which are generally thought to be valid for the entire society .
There is currently a major controversy of public education in which group interests and values are heavily engaged .
The educational profession
In a society dominated by middle-class values and working in an institution which transmits and strengthens these social values , it is clear that the educational profession must work for the values which are characteristic of the society .
The answers to questions such as these certainly depend to some extent upon the educator's own social-class position and also upon his social history , as well as upon his personality and what he conceives his mission to be as an educator .
One social-class factor which plays a large part in educational policy today is the fact that a great many school and college teachers are upward mobile from urban lower-class and lower-middle-class families .
Teachers who have been upward mobile probably see education as most valuable for their students if it serves students as it has served them ; ;
There is no doubt that higher education since World War 2 , has moved away from `` pure '' liberal education toward greater emphasis on technology and specialization .
Compared with the college and university faculty members of the period from 1900 to 1930 , the new postwar faculty members consist of more children of immigrants and more children of urban working-class fathers .
The `` public interest '' groups
Another public interest group is the commission of laymen or educators which is appointed to study an educational problem and to make recommendations .
An example of a more definite class bias is noted in proceedings of the Commission on the Financing of Higher Education sponsored by the Association of American Universities and supported by the Rockefeller Foundation and the Carnegie Corporation .
Then there are the trustees and officers of the great educational foundations , who inevitably exert an influence on educational decisions by their support or refusal to support various educational programs , experiments , and demonstrations .
Finally there are the parent organizations and the laymen's organizations such as the National Association of Parents and Teachers , and the Citizens Committee on Public Schools .
In general , it appears that educational decisions and educational policies are made by people who intend to act in the interests of the society as a whole .
Attempts to influence social structure through education
Maximizing economic and cultural opportunity
The recent federal government's student-loan program is another step in the direction of making higher education more available to lower-status youth .
Unfortunately , however , and for reasons to be discussed in the following chapter , no rate relationships can be made completely nondiscriminatory as long as all or some of the rates must be set above marginal costs in order to yield adequate revenues .
Two major types of fully distributed cost analysis
The first , or double-step , type might also be called the `` railroad type '' because of its application to railroads ( and other transportation agencies ) by the Cost Section of the Interstate Commerce Commission .
Since this book is concerned only incidentally with railroad rates , it will not attempt to analyze the methods by which the staff of the Interstate Commerce Commission has estimated out-of-pocket costs and apportioned residue costs .
As already noted in an earlier paragraph , the more familiar cost analyses of utility enterprises or utility systems divide the total costs among a number of major classes of service , such as residential , commercial , industrial power , street lighting , etc. .
The general basis on which these common costs are assigned to differently measured units of service will be illustrated by the following highly simplified problem of an electric-utility cost analysis .
In the first subtype , the analyst ( following the practice of railroad analysis in this particular respect ) distributes both total operating costs and total annual capital costs ( including an allowance for `` cost of capital '' or `` fair rate of return '' ) among the different classes and units of service .
But in the second subtype , which I take to be the one more frequently applied , only the operating expenses and not the `` cost of capital '' or `` fair return '' are apportioned directly among the various classes of service .
There are obvious reasons of convenience for this practice of excluding `` cost of capital '' from the direct apportionment of annual costs among the different classes of service -- notably , the avoidance of the controversial question what rate of return should be held to constitute `` cost of capital '' or `` fair rate of return '' .
For the reason just suggested , I shall assume the use of the first subtype of fully distributed cost apportionment in the following simplified example .
Three-part analysis of the costs of an electric utility business
Since the company under review is supplying what we are here regarding as only one kind of service , we might suppose that the problem of total cost apportionment would be very simple ; ;
The simplest division , and the one most frequently used ( with subdivisions ) in gas and electric rate cases , is a threefold division of the total operating and capital costs into `` customer costs '' , `` energy '' or `` volumetric costs '' , and `` demand '' or `` capacity '' costs .
per kilowatt-hour , and a $2 charge for a maximum demand of 2 kilowatts during the month at the rate of $1 per kilowatt -- a total bill of $8 for that month .
But the really controversial aspect of customer-cost imputation arises because of the cost analyst's frequent practice of including , not just those costs that can be definitely earmarked as incurred for the benefit of specific customers but also a substantial fraction of the annual maintenance and capital costs of the secondary ( low-voltage ) distribution system -- a fraction equal to the estimated annual costs of a hypothetical system of minimum capacity .
The preconditions of sociology have remained largely unexamined by the sociologist .
This push to confine the study of mass behaviour to the measurements of parameters involved in differential equations has led sociology perilously close to the reduction of the word `` mass '' to mean a small group in which certain relations between all pairs of individuals in such a group can be studied .
A parallel function for philosophy is the study of the relation between perceptions experientially received and conceptions logically formed .
The purpose of this sort of philosophical study of sociology is not to tyrannize but to clarify the principles of social science .
Metaphysics is no longer a direct grappling with nature as it was in antiquity .
Consider the traditional `` four fields '' of philosophy : logic , ethics , epistemology and esthetics .
The relinquishing by philosophy of pretentious claims to empirical priority gives it an ability to treat problems of meaning and truth which in the past it was unable to examine because of its missionary attitude to knowledge of more humble sorts .
To those raised on Marcel's Homo Viator and Heidegger's das Nichtige , this may seem a modest role for philosophy .
The realm of science , whatever the degree of precision in formulations , covers the range of prediction and explanation .
The mystification of metaphysical systems does not imply the demise of philosophy , only the close of a philosophic age which demanded metaphysics to be rational and logical .
When dealing with the actual relation of philosophy to the sociology of knowledge , or better the role of philosophy in assisting research on the social sources of ideas , one has to become necessarily selective .
The objection will be raised that the most important role of philosophy in relation to social science has been omitted , namely the status of ultimate value questions and norms operative in the social sciences .
It is not that such questions are not asked .
A philosophy which attempts to supply ultimate answers in an ultimate way reveals its acquiescence in the shortcomings of men , an impatience with partial , tentative solutions .
A degree of indefiniteness is a salutary condition for the growth of science .
But neither was the statement empirical , for goodness was not a quality like red or squeaky that could be seen or heard .
Now I do not think their view will do .
Let us work through an example , and the simpler and commoner the better .
Consider what follows from the positivist view .
The first argument is thus an ideal experiment in which we use the method of difference .
So far as I can see , there is only one way out for the positivist .
I come now to a third argument , which again is very simple .
I come now to a fourth consideration .
In his novel The House Of The Dead , Dostoevsky tells of his experiences in a Siberian prison camp .
Indeed , we are forced to go much farther .
The injured German veteran was a former miner , twenty-four years old , who had been wounded by shrapnel in the back of the head .
The force of the authors' analysis ( if indeed it has any force ) can be felt by the reader , I believe , only after three questions have been successfully answered .
Obviously , a satisfactory answer to the third question is imperative , if the argument is to get under way at all , for if there is any possibility of doubt whether the patient's tactual sensitivity had been impaired by the occipital lesion , any findings whatsoever in regard to the first question become completely ambiguous and fail altogether , of course , as evidence to establish the desired conclusion .
First of all , what is their evidence that the tactual apparatus was fundamentally undamaged ? ?
If the argument is accepted as essentially sound up to this point , it remains for us to consider whether the patient's difficulties in orienting himself spatially and in locating objects in space with the sense of touch can be explained by his defective visual condition .
In what ways , then , did the patient's psychical blindness manifest itself ? ?
The patient himself denied that he had any visual imagery at all ; ;
As one would surmise , the procedure , however , could be repeated with the same object or with the same type of object often enough , so that the corresponding visual blots and the merest beginning of the tracing movement would provide clues as to the actual shape , which the patient then immediately could determine by a kind of inference .
Perhaps the very important question -- What is , then , exactly the role of kinesthetic sensations in the patient's ability to recognize forms and shapes by means of the tracing movements when he is actually looking at things ? ?
When the patient was not allowed to move his body in any way at all , the following striking results occurred .
Whenever artists , indeed , turned to actual representations or molded three-dimensional figures , which were rare down to 800 B.C. , they tended to reflect reality ( see Plate 6a , 9b ) ; ;
To speak of this underlying view of the world is to embark upon matters of subjective judgment .
Throughout the work of the later ninth century a calm , severe serenity displays itself .
.
The focus of novelty in this world now lay in the south-eastern districts of the Greek mainland , and by 800 virtually the entire Aegean , always excepting its northern shores , had accepted the Geometric style of pottery .
The same conclusions can be drawn from the other physical evidence of the Dark ages , from linguistic distribution , and from the survivals of early social , political , and religious patterns into later ages .
Further we cannot go , for the Dark ages deserve their name .
To interpret , indeed , the era from 1000 to 800 as a period mainly of consolidation may be a necessary but unfortunate defect born of our lack of detailed information ; ;
Chapter 5 the early eighth century
The Dipylon Geometric pottery of Athens and the Iliad are amazing manifestations of the inherent potentialities of Greek civilization ; ;
The modern student , who knows what was to come next , is likely to place first the factors of change which are visible in the eighth century .
On this principle of division I must postpone the evolution of sculpture , architecture , society , and politics ; ;
Beyond the aesthetic and technical aspects of this expansion we must consider the change in pottery style on broader lines .
Ripe Geometric potters continued to employ the old syntax of ornaments and shapes and made use of the well-defined though limited range of motifs which they had inherited .
As the material at the command of the potters grew and the volume of their production increased , the local variations within a common style became more evident .
Cook had discovered a beef in his possession a few days earlier and , when he could not show the hide , arrested him .
Three weeks later , following his recovery , armed with a writ issued by the Catskill justice on affidavits prepared by the district attorney , Cook and Russell rode to arrest Martinez .
Both Cook's and Russell's lives were threatened by the Mexicans following the killing , but the company officers felt that in the end , it would serve to quiet them despite their immediate emotion .
On February 17 , Russell and Cook were sent to the Pena Flor community on the Vermejo to see about renting out ranches the company had purchased .
After spending two nights ( Wednesday and Thursday ) in Catskill , the deputies again headed for the Vermejo to finish their business .
With the first reports , Russell's horse wheeled to the right and ran towards the buildings while Cook , followed by a hail of bullets , raced towards the arroyo of Salyer's Canyon immediately in front of him , just reaching it as his horse fell .
Russell had reached the house as Cook surmised , dismounted , but just as the old trapper opened the door to receive him , he fell into the trapper's arms -- dead .
Before daylight Sunday morning , a posse of twenty-three men under the leadership of Deputy Sheriff Frank MacPherson of Catskill followed the trail to the house of Francisco Chaves , where 100 to 150 Mexicans had gathered .
The posse's retreat encouraged the Mexicans to be overbearing and impudent .
Increasing threats on his life finally convinced Cook that he should leave New Mexico .
Cattle stealing and killing , again serious during the spring of 1891 , placed the land grant company officers in a perplexing position .
Word reached the company that the man behind these depredations was Manuel Gonzales , a man with many followers , including a number who were kept in line through fear of him .
About 300 yards up the creek was a cluster of Mexican houses containing six rooms in the form of a square .
Not realizing the seriousness of the wound , the besiegers warned that if he did not surrender the house would be burned down around him .
Early the next morning , a Mexican telephoned Pels that Celso Chavez , one of the posse members , was surrounded by ten Mexicans at his father's home on the upper Vermejo .
The ten or more dangerous parties singled out for prosecution were still at large , and Pels realized that if these men entrenched themselves in their adobe houses , defending themselves through loopholes , it would be most difficult to capture them .
The plant was located west of the Battenkill and south of the location of the former electric light plant .
The Manchester Depot Sewer Company issued 214 shares of stock at $10 each for construction of a sewer in that locality , and assessments were made for its maintenance .
The sewer on Bonnet Street was constructed when there were only a few houses on the street .
The 1946 town meeting voted to have the Selectmen appoint a committee to investigate and report on the feasibility of some system of sewage disposal and a disposal plant to serve Manchester Center , Depot , and Way's Lane .
The 1958 town meeting directed town authorities to seek federal and state funds with which to conduct a preliminary survey of a proposed sewage plant with its attendant facilities .
There the matter stands with the prospect that soon Manchester may be removed from the roster of towns contributing raw sewage to its main streams .
Telephone and telegraph
In 1846 Matthew B. Goodwin , jeweler and watchmaker , became the town's first telegrapher in a dwelling he built for himself and his business `` two doors north of the Equinox House '' or `` one door north of the Bank , Manchester , Vermont '' .
By 1871 L. C. Orvis , manager of the `` Western Union Telegraph Company '' , expressed willingness to send emergency telegrams on Sundays from his Village drugstore .
In the fall of 1878 , the `` Popular Telegraph Line '' was established between Manchester and Factory Point by the owners , Paul W. Orvis , Henry Gray , J. N. Hard , and Clark J. Wait .
In 1879 the same Clark Wait , with H. H. Holley of South Dorset , formed the `` American Telegraph Line '' , extending from Manchester Depot via Factory Point and South Dorset to Dorset .
Early equipment was very flimsy ; ;
About 1888 J. E. McNaughton of Barnumville and E. G. Bacon became proprietors of the `` Green Mountain Telegraph Company '' , connecting all offices on the Western Union line and extending over the mountain from Barnumville to Peru , Londonderry , South Londonderry , Lowell Lake , Windham , North Windham , Grafton , Cambridgeport , Saxton's River , and Bellows Falls .
From 1896 until 1910 John H. Whipple was manager of Western Union at the Center in the drugstore he purchased from Clark Wait .
These were the years when people flocked to Manchester not only to play golf , which had come into vogue , but also to witness the Ekwanok Country Club tournaments .
The old Morse system was replaced locally by the Simplex modern automatic method in 1929 , when Ellamae Heckman ( Wilcox ) was manager of the Western Union office .
The first known telephone line in Manchester was established in July 1883 between Burr and Manley's store at Manchester Depot and the Kent and Root Marble Company in South Dorset .
A small single switchboard was installed in the Village over Woodcock's hardware store ( later E. H. Hemenway's ) .
In 1918 the New England Telephone Company began erecting a building to house its operations on the corner of U. S. Rte. 7 and what is now Memorial Avenue at Manchester Center .
In 1931 Mrs. F. H. Briggs , agent and chief operator , who was to retire in 1946 with thirty years' service , led agency offices in sales for the year with $2,490 .
In 1932 Dorset received its own exchange , which made business easier for the Manchester office , but it was not until February 1953 that area service was extended to include Manchester and Dorset .
Electric power
The first mention of an electric plant in Manchester seems to be one installed in Reuben Colvin's and Houghton's gristmill on the West Branch in Factory Point .
On June 14 , 1900 the Manchester Journal reported that an electrical engineer was installing an electric light plant for Edward S. Isham at `` Ormsby Hill '' .
In November 1900 surveying was done under John Marsden on the east mountains to ascertain if it would be possible to get sufficient water and fall to operate an electric power plant .
The next step was construction by the Manchester Light and Power Company of a plant on the west bank of the Battenkill south of Union Street bridge .
The first directors of the Manchester Light and Power Company were John Marsden , M. L. Manley , William F. Orvis , George Smith , and John Blackmer .
At about the time the Marsden enterprise was getting under way , the Vail Light and Lumber Company started construction of a chair stock factory on the site of the present Bennington Co-operative Creamery , intending to use its surplus power for generating electricity .
The Colonial Light and Power Company was succeeded by the Vermont Hydro-Electric Corporation , which in turn was absorbed by the Central Vermont Public Service Corporation .
For a time following the abandonment of the local plant , electric current for Manchester was brought in from the south with an emergency tie-in with the Vermont Marble Company system to the north .
Some who have written on Utopia have treated it as `` a learned diversion of a learned world '' , `` a phantasy with which More amused himself '' , `` a holiday work , a spontaneous overflow of intellectual high spirits , a revel of debate , paradox , comedy and invention '' .
But to return to the main line of our inquiry , it is doubtful that Utopia is still widely read because More was medieval or even because he was a martyr -- indeed , it is likely that these days many who read Utopia with interest do not even know that its author was a martyr .
More stands on the margins of modernity for one reason alone -- because he wrote Utopia .
What is new about it ? ?
But although the idea of communism is very old even in More's day and did not spring full-clad from his imagination in 1515 , it is not communism as such that we are concerned with .
In Plato's Republic communism is -- to speak anachronistically -- a communism of Janissaries .
To derive Utopian communism from the Jerusalem Christian community of the apostolic age or from its medieval successors-in-spirit , the monastic communities , is with an appropriate shift of adjectives , misleading in the same way as to derive it from Plato's Republic : in the Republic we have to do with an elite of physical and intellectual athletes , in the apostolic and monastic communities with an elite of spiritual and religious athletes .
Finally , the conception of the natural community of all possessions which originated with the Stoics was firmly fixed in a tradition by More's time , although it was not accepted by all the theologian-philosophers of the Middle Ages .
`` The soil is common to all men .
Because community not severalty of property is the law of nature no man can assert an absolutely unalterable right to what is his .
In all the respects just indicated Utopian communism differs from previous conceptions in which community of possessions and living plays a role .
Although Utopian communism is both new in 1516 and also modern , it is not modern communism or even modern socialism , as they exist or have ever existed in theory or in practice .
During the Dorr trial the Democratic press condemned the proceedings and heralded Dorr as a martyr to the principles of the Declaration of Independence .
While the Daily Post continued to accuse Republicans and the Daily Journal continued to accuse Democrats , the Woonsocket Patriot complained that the Virginia authorities showed indecent and cowardly haste to condemn Brown and his men .
On October 31 , 1859 , John Brown was found guilty of treason against the state of Virginia , inciting slave rebellion , and murder .
Although Rhode Islanders were preparing for the state elections , they watched John Brown's trial with extreme interest .
In the eastern section of the state the newspapers' reaction to Brown's trial and sentence were basically identical .
In direct contrast to the other Rhode Island editors , Samuel S. Foss of the Woonsocket Patriot outwardly condemned the trial as being completely unfair .
Despite the excitement being caused by the trial and sentence of John Brown , Rhode Islanders turned their attention to the state elections .
During the month of November hardly a day passed when there was not some mention of John Brown in the Rhode Island newspapers .
On Wednesday evening , November 23 , 1859 , in Warren , Rev. Mark Trafton of New Bedford , gave a `` Mission of Sympathy '' lecture in which he favorably viewed the Harper's Ferry insurrection .
No sympathy or admiration for Brown could be found in the Providence Daily Post , for the editor claimed that there were a score of men in the state prison who were a thousand times more deserving of sympathy .
In her letter to John Brown , `` E. B. '' , the Quakeress from Newport , had suggested that the American people owed more honor to John Brown for seeking to free the slaves than they did to George Washington .
On December 2 , 1859 , John Brown was hanged at Charles Town , Virginia .
Despite the opposition of the city newspapers , the Pratt Hall meeting `` brought together a very respectable audience , composed in part of those who had been distinguished for years for their radical views upon the subject of slavery , of many of our colored citizens , and of those who were attracted to the place by the novelty of such a gathering '' .
The next speaker was George T. Day .
The fourth and last speaker was Thomas Davis .
Whereas , John Brown has cheerfully risked his life in endeavoring to deliver those who are denied all rights and is this day doomed to suffer death for his efforts in behalf of those who have no helper : Therefore ,
Resolved that , while we most decidedly disapprove the methods he adopted to accomplish his objects , yet in his willingness to die in aid of the great cause of human freedom , we still recognize the qualities of a noble nature and the exercise of a spirit which true men have always admired and which history never fails to honor .
Resolved that his wrongs and bereavements in Kansas , occasioned by the violence and brutality of those who were intent on the propagation of slavery in that territory , call for a charitable judgment upon his recent efforts in Virginia to undermine the despotism from which he had suffered , and commend his family to the special sympathy and aid of all who pity suffering and reverence justice .
Resolved that the anti-slavery sentiment is becoming ripe for resolute action .
Resolved , that we find in this fearful tragedy at Harper's Ferry a reason for more earnest effort to remove the evil of slavery from the whole land as speedily as possible .
On the morning following the Pratt Hall meeting the editor of the Providence Daily Journal wrote that although the meeting was milder and less extreme than those held in other areas for similar purposes , it could have been avoided completely .
Rather than being deceived , the eye is puzzled ; ;
Through 1911 and 1912 , as the Cubist facet-plane's tendency to adhere to the literal surface became harder and harder to deny , the task of keeping the surface at arm's length fell all the more to eye-undeceiving contrivances .
The accumulation of such devices , however , soon had the effect of telescoping , even while separating , surface and depth .
When we examine what each master says was his first collage we see that much the same thing happens in each .
Because of the size of the areas it covers , the pasted paper establishes undepicted flatness bodily , as more than an indication or sign .
In the upper center of Braque's first collage , Fruit Dish ( in Douglas Cooper's collection ) , a bunch of grapes is rendered with such conventionally vivid sculptural effect as to lift it practically off the picture plane .
In later collages of both masters , a variety of extraneous materials are used , sometimes in the same work , and almost always in conjunction with every other eye-deceiving and eye-undeceiving device they can think of .
Out of this re-created literalness , the Cubist subject reemerged .
It was then that Picasso and Braque were confronted with a unique dilemma : they had to choose between illusion and representation .
In the end , Picasso and Braque plumped for the representational , and it would seem they did so deliberately .
Analytical Cubism came to an end in the collage , but not conclusively ; ;
Synthetic Cubism began with Picasso alone , late in 1913 or early in 1914 ; ;
Some time in 1912 , Picasso cut out and folded a piece of paper in the shape of a guitar ; ;
Los Angeles in 1957 finally bowed to the skyscraper .
However , the building of freeways and garages cannot continue forever .
The freeway with narrowly spaced interchanges concentrates and mitigates the access problem , but it also acts inevitably as an artificial , isolating boundary .
Meanwhile , the automobile and its friend the truck have cost the central city some of its industrial dominance .
This movement of industry away from the central cities is not so catastrophically new as some prophets seem to believe .
The truck and the car gave the manufacturer a new degree of freedom in selecting his plant site .
Willow Run , General Electric's enormous installations at Louisville and Syracuse , the Pentagon , Boeing in Seattle , Douglas and Lockheed in Los Angeles , the new automobile assembly plants everywhere -- none of these is substantially served by any sort of conventional mass rapid transit .
The future could be worse .
While the factories were always the center of the labor market , they were often on the city's periphery .
Some retailing , of course , always spreads with the population -- grocery stores , drugstores , local haberdasheries and dress shops , candy stores and the like .
In most discussions of this phenomenon , the figures are substantially inflated .
When all has been said , however , the big branch store remains a major break with history in the development of American retailing .
The downtown store continues to offer the great inducement of variety , both within its gates and across the street , where other department stores are immediately convenient for the shopper who wants to see what is available before making up her mind .
Historically in America the appeal of cities has been their color and life , the variety of experience they offered .
4 .
Before losing itself in the sands of the 19th Century , the grand stream of Italian Renaissance architectural decoration made a last appearance in the Brumidi frescos of the Capitol Rotunda in Washington .
The artistic generation after Brumidi was trained in the Paris of that time to a more meticulous standard of execution , and tended to overlook greatness of conception where faults and weakness were easy to find .
Constantino Brumidi designed the decorative scheme as a whole , in collaboration with the architect Charles U. Walter , at the time when plans were being made to replace the wooden dome of Bullfinch with the present much larger iron structure .
When Costaggini had used up all the sketches thirty-six feet of empty frieze were left over .
For the use of students and future restorers , a full , day-by-day record was kept of all three undertakings , complete technical reports on what we found and what we did .
The first preliminary was inspecting the unfinished length of frieze , a jumble of roughcast and finish coats , all in bad condition .
When it was all arranged to fit , and not to interrupt the lengthwise flow of movement in the frieze , the cartoons were tried in place .
The scaffold was the length of the space to be painted .
In our own practice , to have the last `` intonaco '' plaster coat thick enough to match , and at the same time to avoid fine cracks in drying , we found that it had to be put on in two layers , letting the first set awhile before applying the second .
Figure 1 was taken in 1953 .
The startlingly bright effect of the first washings led the Committee to order the rest of the Brumidi-Costaggini cycle cleaned and restored to go with them .
On this giddy and oscillating platform over fifty feet from the floor , after a first dusting , we began to wash .
The greatest source of trouble was rain which had repeatedly flowed from openings above , soaking the surface and leaving streaks of dissolved lime , very conspicuous even after cleaning , particularly in the `` Landing of Columbus '' , `` Oglethorpe and the Indians '' , and `` Yorktown '' .
These frescos have had no care for eighty years .
Those whom I wish to address with this letter are for the most part unknown to me .
There should be no reason to misinterpret or ignore the intent of this letter .
Nevertheless I consider it reasonable , because of my commitment as an artist , to assume that the rights and responsibilities of creative individuals are related to humanity as a whole rather than to specific geo-political interests .
It cannot be said that our very first day in the Soviet Union turned out to be an ordinary one .
These two recollections form the frame around a series of experiences and sights which , to me at least , symbolize the extremes in the aesthetic as well as ethical conflict between materialism and humanism .
This kind of reasoning and logic takes a little time to get used to .
Typical of such an experience was the occasion of a somewhat formal official welcome in the offices of the Union of Soviet Artists .
.
`` We have come to your land with the express intention of understanding and respecting your ideas and your ways .
In spite of the relatively short period of time that we have experienced among you , we have already seen many indications of your character and spirit .
We have come to you to experience something of your way of life while also attempting to acquaint you with that of ours .
Like yourselves , we have pride and love for our country .
The Sane Society is an ambitious work .
That could be easily done , but there is little reason in it .
It is worthwhile to recall that Fromm's treatment has both descriptive and normative aspects .
Almost no empirical work has been done on the problem of alienation .
I am not suggesting that Fromm ought to do this kind of work .
Until such evidence appears , we must make do with the evidence we have .
Fromm's analysis of alienation in the sphere of production centers around the concepts of the bureaucratization of the corporation , the separation of ownership from control , and the broad ( and thus from the point of view of corporate control , ineffective ) dispersion of stock ownership .
Another example is his very infrequent use of the large amount of data from surveys designed to discover what and how people actually do feel and think on a broad range of topics : he cites such survey-type findings just three times .
In view of these shortcomings in both the amount and the interpretation of survey-type findings on public opinion , and considering the criticisms which can be brought against Fromm's philosophical anthropology , such a passage as the following cannot be taken seriously .
The ambiguities suggested above stem from a more basic difficulty in Fromm's style of thought .
The point is that in a system such as Fromm's which recognizes unconscious motivations , and which rests on certain ethical absolutes , empirical data can be used to support whatever proposition the writer is urging at the moment .
The final example of the failure to use available evidence , though evidence of a different kind from that which has so far been considered , comes from Fromm's treatment of some other writers who have dealt with the same themes .
Turning from these problems of the use of evidence , one meets another type of difficulty in Fromm's analysis , which is his loose and ambiguous use of certain important terms .
For Fromm , capitalism is the enemy , the root of all evil .
If one characteristic distinguishes Boris Godunov , it is the consistency with which every person on the stage -- including the chorus -- comes alive in the music .
The moments of sung melody , in the usual sense , come most often when the character is actually supposed to be singing , as in folk songs and liturgical chants .
Aside from Boris himself , one need but examine the secondary roles to place Mussorgsky among the masters of musical portraiture .
Pimen is an old man , weak in body -- his voice rarely rises to a full forte -- but firm and clear of mind .
This theme comes to represent the outer world , the realm of battles and banquets -- seen from a distance , quite distinct from the quieter spiritual life in the monastery .
An imaginative storyteller , Pimen takes on the character he describes , as if he were experiencing the old shepherd's blindness and miraculous cure .
Varlaam and Missail always appear together and often sing together , in a straightforward , rhythmically vigorous idiom that distinguishes them from the more subtle and well-educated Pimen .
The same could be said for the song to which they make their entrance in the final scene .
Missail is the straight man , not very talkative , mild-mannered when he does speak .
The Song Of Kazan , in which this figure becomes a wild-sounding accompaniment , fills in the picture of undisciplined high spirits .
Varlaam's music begins to ramble as he feels the effects of the wine , but he pulls himself together when the need arises .
Musically and dramatically , Rangoni is as far removed from the conventional monk as Varlaam .
Rangoni's first entrance is a musical shock , a sudden open fifth in a key totally unrelated to what has preceded it .
Curiously , this scene is a close parallel to one that Verdi was writing at the same time , the scene between Amonasro and Aida .
Now Rangoni comes to the point , and we hear , for the first time , a long , downward chromatic scale that will become the characteristic motif of his sinister power .
Marina rebels at this suggestion .
At once the Jesuit pulls out all the stops .
The most unusual feature of Boris , however , is the use of the greatest character of all , the chorus .
One reason for the unique vitality of the chorus is its great variety in expression .
The opening scene shows this method at its most individual .
Mussorgsky frequently uses liturgical music with considerable dramatic force .
Again , as Boris feels himself nearing death , a procession files into the hall singing a hymn , its modal harmonies adding a churchly touch to the grim atmosphere : The words are hardly calculated to put the Tsar's mind at ease .
One of the outstanding assets of the present production is the restoration of the St. Basil's scene , usually omitted from performances and rarely included in a published score .
The St. Basil's scene opens with little groups of beggars milling around the square , the ever present police keeping them under scrutiny .
The service is over , and a number of people come from the church with their spokesman Mityukh in the lead .
So far these remarks , like most criticisms of Hardy , have tacitly assumed that his poetry is all of a piece , one solid mass of verse expressing a sensibility at a single stage of development .
This is not , however , the case , and development is a term which we can apply to Hardy only in a very limited sense .
There is only one sense in which it is valid to talk about Hardy's development : he did develop toward a more consistent and more effective control of that tone which we recognize as uniquely his .
There are two ways of getting at a poet's development : through his dated poems , and through the revisions which he made in later editions of his work .
From the dated poems we can venture certain conclusions about Hardy's career in poetry , always remembering that conclusions based on a fraction of the whole must remain tentative .
The dated poems also give us an idea of the degree to which Hardy drew upon past productions for his various volumes , and therefore probably are an indication of the amount of poetry he was writing at the time .
These observations about Hardy's productivity tally with the details of his life as we know them .
The second productive period , the decade from 1910 to 1920 , can be related to three events : the completion of The Dynasts in 1909 , which left Hardy free of pressure for the first time in forty years ; ;
Hardy's two productive decades were separated by forty years , yet between them he developed only in that he became more steadily himself -- it was a narrowing , not an expanding process .
We can see the general characteristics of the earlier decade if we look at two poems of very different qualities : `` Revulsion '' ( 1866 ) and `` Neutral Tones '' ( 1867 ) .
`` Neutral Tones '' we immediately recognize as a fine poem in Hardy's most characteristic style : the plain but not quite colloquial language , the hard , particular , colorless images , the slightly odd stanza-form , the dramatic handling of the occasion , the refusal to resolve the issue -- all these we have seen in Hardy's best poems .
The details of the setting of `` Neutral Tones '' are not , strictly speaking , metaphorical , but they combine to create a mood which is appropriate both to a dismal winter day and to the end of love , and in this way love and weather , the emotions and the elements , symbolize each other in a way that is common to many of Hardy's best poems ( `` Weathers '' , `` The Darkling Thrush '' , and `` During Wind and Rain '' , for example ) and to some moving passages in the novels as well ( Far From The Madding Crowd is full of scenes constructed in this way ) .
`` Neutral Tones '' is an excellent example of Hardy's mature style , drawn from his earliest productive period ; ;
The `` Poems of 1912 - 13 '' offer a good example of Hardy's style as it was manifested in the later productive decade .
The elegiac tone is Hardy's natural tone of voice , and it is not surprising that the 1912 - 13 poems are consistently and unmistakably his .
Critically invisible , modern revolt , like X-rays and radioactivity , is perceived only by its effects at more materialistic social levels , where it is called delinquency .
`` Disaffiliation '' , by the way , is the term used by the critic and poet , Lawrence Lipton , who has written several articles on this subject , the first of which , in The Nation , quoted as Epigraph : `` We disaffiliate .
Like the pillars of Hercules , like two ruined Titans guarding the entrance to one of Dante's circles , stand two great dead juvenile delinquents -- the heroes of the post-war generation : the great saxophonist , Charlie Parker , and Dylan Thomas .
Both of them were overcome by the horror of the world in which they found themselves , because at last they could no longer overcome that world with the weapon of a purely lyrical art .
The last time I saw Bird , at Jimbo's Bob City , he was so gone -- so blind to the world -- that he literally sat down on me before he realized I was there .
The last time I saw Dylan , his self-destruction had not just passed the limits of rationality .
Now Dylan Thomas and Charlie Parker have a great deal more in common than the same disastrous end .
Thomas and Parker have more in common than theme , attitude , life pattern .
What Parker and his contemporaries -- Gillespie , Davis , Monk , Roach ( Tristano is an anomaly ) , etc. -- did was to absorb the musical ornamentation of the older jazz into the basic structure , of which it then became an integral part , and with which it then developed .
It is not a farfetched analogy to say that this is what Thomas did to poetry .
This is one difference between Bird and Dylan which should be pointed out .
Technique pure and simple , rendition , is not of major importance , but it is interesting that Parker , following Lester Young , was one of the leaders of the so-called saxophone revolution .
I want to make clear what I consider the one technical development in the first wave of significant post-war arts .
Just as Hart Crane had little influence on anyone except very reactionary writers -- like Allen Tate , for instance , to whom Valery was the last word in modern poetry and the felicities of an Apollinaire , let alone a Paul Eluard were nonsense -- so Dylan Thomas's influence has been slight indeed .
Parker certainly had much more of an influence .
The point is that many of the most impressive developments in the arts nowadays are aberrant , idiosyncratic .
In the plastic arts , a very similar situation exists .
At its best the abstract expressionists achieve a simple rococo decorative surface .
A process of elimination which leaves the artist with nothing but the play of his materials themselves cannot sustain interest in either artist or public for very long .
Anglo-Saxon and Greek epic each provide on two occasions a seemingly authentic account of the narration of verse in the heroic age .
The bondage endurable by an oral poet is to be estimated only by a very skilful oral poet , but it appears safe to assume that no sustained narrative in rhyme could be composed without extreme difficulty , even in a language of many terminal inflections .
One of the greatest Homerists of our time , Frederick M. Combellack , argues that when it is assumed The Iliad and The Odyssey are oral poems , the postulated single redactor called Homer cannot be either credited with or denied originality in choice of phrasing .
Combellack argues further , and here he makes his main point , that once The Iliad and The Odyssey are thought formulaic poems composed for an audience accustomed to formulaic poetry , Homeric critics are deprived of an entire domain they previously found arable .
W. F. Bryan suggests that certain kennings in Beowulf were selected sometimes for appropriateness and sometimes for ironic inappropriateness , but such a view would appear untenable unless it is denied that the language of Beowulf is formulaic .
Yet , if the argument is turned awry , there may be found a great deal in Bryan's view , after all .
Beowulf and the Homeric poems appear oral compositions .
Carl Eduard Schmidt counted 1804 different lines repeated exactly in the two Homeric poems , and by increasing this figure so as to include lines repeated with very slight modifications he counted 2118 different lines used a total of 5612 times .
The Iliad has two words for the shield , ASPIS and SAKOS .
Recent criticism of Great Expectations has tended to emphasize its symbolic and mythic content , to show , as M. D. Zabel has said of Dickens generally , that much of the novel's impact resides in its `` allegoric insight and moral metaphor '' .
Dickens was not for nothing the most theatrical of the great Victorian writers .
Such mannerisms would be less worthy of remark , were it not that in Great Expectations , as in no other of Dickens' novels , hands serve as a leitmotif of plot and theme -- a kind of unifying symbol or natural metaphor for the book's complex of human interrelationships and the values and attitudes that motivate them .
The novel opens with a fugitive convict frantically trying to avoid the nemesis of being `` laid hands on '' -- a mysterious figure who looks into Pip's frightened eyes in the churchyard `` as if he were eluding the hands of the dead people , stretching up cautiously out of their graves , to get a twist upon his ankle and pull him in '' .
Since they commonly translate thoughts and feelings into deeds , hands naturally represent action , and since nearly half the characters in Great Expectations are of the underworld or closely allied to it , the linking of hands with crime or violence is not to be wondered at .
The scarred , disfigured wrists of Mr. Jaggers' housekeeper are the tell-tale marks of her sinister past , for her master , coolly exhibiting them to his dinner guests , makes a point of the `` force of grip there is in these hands '' .
But only in one of its aspects is Great Expectations a tale of violence , revenge , and retribution .
Since a gentleman must , if possible , avoid sullying them by work , his hands , as importantly as his accent , become the index of social status .
Pip's abject leave-taking of Miss Havisham , during which he kneels to kiss her hand , signalizes his homage to a supposed patroness who seems to be opening up for him a new world of glamour ; ;
A variety of hand movements helps dramatize the moral climate of the fallen world Pip encounters beyond the forge .
Pip first learns `` the stupendous power of money '' from the sycophantic tailor , Mr. Trabb , whose brutality to his boy helper exactly matches the financial resource of each new customer , and whose fawning hands touch `` the outside of each elbow '' and `` rub '' Pip out of the shop .
The following items may be specified in actual or symbolic form in the operands of those instructions which refer to the particular items : channel , unit , combined channel and unit , combined arm and file , unit record synchronizers , inquiry synchronizers , and alteration switches .
The label and operation columns must be blank and the continuation of the operand must begin in column 21 ; ;
Illustrations of the use of continuation cards are included throughout the examples illustrating the various statements .
If a continuation card follows a statement that does not permit continuation cards , the compiler will generate a NOP and issue an error message .
Reservation of index words and electronic switches
During the first pass of Phase 3 , , references to the actual addresses of index words and electronic switches are collected and the availability table is updated .
Both index words and electronic switches may have been made unavailable before the start of assignment in one of the following ways .
The initial setting of the availability table indicated that the index word or electronic switch was not available for assignment .
The one- or two-digit number of the index word or electronic switch was used in the operand of a symbolic machine instruction to specify indexing or as a parameter which is always an index word or electronic switch , e.g. , 3 .
The one- or two-digit number of the index word or electronic switch was used in the operand of an EQU statement , e.g. ,
When the index words or electronic switches are reserved because of actual usage in the statements described above , the position or order of the statements within the program is not important ; ;
During the assignment pass of Phase 3 , , index words and electronic switches are reserved as they are encountered during assignment .
During the assignment pass , each instruction is examined for reference to the symbolic name of an index word or electronic switch .
If the one- or two-digit address of an index word or electronic switch is used or is included in the operand of an XRESERVE or SRESERVE statement ( see page 99 ) , the corresponding index word or electronic switch is reserved .
If a statement has been assigned an address in the index word area
The preceding methods allow efficient use of index words and electronic switches during a sectionalized or multi-phase program , particularly when used in conjunction with the LITORIGIN statement .
If the symbolic name or actual address of an index word or electronic switch appears or is included in the operand of an XRELEASE or SRELEASE statement ( see page 101 ) , the specified index word or electronic switch will again be made available , regardless of the method by which it was reserved .
If , at any time during the assignment pass , the compiler finds that there are no more index words available for assignment , the warning message `` No More Index Words Available '' will be placed in the object program listing , the table will be altered to show that index words 1 through 96 are available , and the assignment will continue as before .
As noted in Appendix C , index words 97 through 99 are never available for assignment to symbolic names by the compiler ; ;
Declarative statements
The DA statement is used to name and define the positions and length of fields within an area .
In some cases , it may be more advantageous to assign locations to RDWS associated with DA and DC areas in some other part of storage , i.e. , not immediately preceding the DA or DC areas .
As many as ten digital switches may be named and provided by the DSW statement for consideration by the SETSW and logic macro-instructions .
Through use of the DLINE statement , a means is provided for specifying both the editing of fields to be inserted in a print line area and the layout of the area itself .
The declarative statement EQU permits the programmer to equate symbolic names to actual index words , electronic switches , arm and file numbers , tape channel and unit numbers , alteration switches , etc. , and to equate a symbol to another symbol or to an actual address .
The DIOCS , DTF , and DUF statements are used when required by the Input/Output Control System .
A full description of the DIOCS , DTF , and DUF statements is contained in the 7070 Data Processing System Bulletin `` IBM 7070 Input/Output Control System '' , form Aj .
The first item in the operand , IOCSIXF , is used to specify the first IOCS index word for programs using tape files .
The second item in the operand , IOCSIXG , is used to specify the second IOCS index word for programs using tape files .
In the Midwest , oxidation ponds are used extensively for the treatment of domestic sewage from suburban areas .
Research at Fayette , Missouri on oxidation ponds has shown that the BOD in the treated effluent varied from 30 to 53 mg/l with loadings from 8 to 120 lb .
.
Red Bridge Subdivision
The anaerobic conditions in the existing oxidation pond necessitated examination of other methods for supplying additional oxygen than by sodium nitrate .
Pilot lagoon
The pilot plant was equipped with a 3-hp. turbine aerator ( Figure 2 ) .
Analyses
Grab samples were collected from the existing oxidation pond to determine its operating conditions .
Pilot plant operations
The organic loading on the unit averaged 32 lb of BOD/day or about 2 lb BOD/day/1,000 cu ft aeration capacity .
The flow rate remained relatively constant during the winter months as shown in Table 1 .
The large amount of vegetable grindings from the grocery store in the shopping center created a suspended solids problem .
The suspended solids discharged in the effluent were found to be the major source of the Aj .
Microscopic examination
Initially , the flagellated protozoa predominated , but they soon gave way to the free swimming ciliated protozoa .
Oxygen transfer
A series of eight special tests were conducted at different rotor speeds to determine the oxygen transfer rate .
Oxidation pond
The effluent BOD averaged 34 mg/l , a little lower than that of the study at Fayette indicated for a loading of 60 lb. Aj .
Thus , the three main categories of antisubmarine warfare operations are defense of shipping , defense of naval forces , and area defense .
To effect these operations , five elements exist ( 1 ) surface , ( 2 ) air , ( 3 ) mines , ( 4 ) submarine , and ( 5 ) fixed installations .
A sixth element , not always considered , is intelligence .
Necessity for an over-all concept
Principles involved in an over-all concept
It is often stated that the submarine can be destroyed while building , at bases , in transit , and on station .
Antisubmarine warfare does not involve clashes between large opposing forces , with the decision a result of a single battle .
The submarine has increased its effectiveness by several orders of magnitude since World War 2 .
No element can accomplish the total objective of submarine defense .
Conceivably the submarine defense problem can be solved by sufficient forces .
The world is constantly changing ; ;
Supporting elements in asw operations
Intelligence , as used herein , will include information on possible opponents and on the environment which can affect operations .
A program is needed to translate the results of oceanographic research into tactical and operating instructions .
Mine warfare has in the past been directed against surface targets .
For example , effective mine barriers from Florida to Cuba and across the Yucatan Channel from Cuba to Mexico would remove all requirements for harbor defense , inshore patrol , convoy escort , shipping control , and mine defense for the entire Gulf of Mexico .
Fixed installations are increasingly advocated as the problem of area defense emerges .
The submarine has become increasingly attractive as an antisubmarine weapon system .
Two metabolites ( 1 , and 2 ) ) of p-aminobenzoic acid ( PABA ) which act as cofactors for the hydroxylation of aniline by acid-fast bacteria are biosynthesized from Aj .
Vigorous acid hydrolysis of metabolite 1 , destroyed the biological activity of the compound and liberated two aryl amines .
A method was devised for extracting and purifying soluble earthworm collagen ( EWC ) .
continuum mechanics and viscoelasticity
geochemistry
Libyan Desert silica-glass , another natural glass , is composed of nearly pure silica and has the same trace germanium content as sands in the area .
Nickel-iron meteorites with sufficient kinetic energy to produce large terrestrial explosion craters may nevertheless melt only small quantities of material .
inorganic chemistry
The coordination complexes formed by transition metals with primary and secondary phosphines and arsines are being investigated ( R. G. Hayter ) .
In another study chromium-substituted aluminum oxyhydroxides and related species , prepared homogeneously by high-temperature hydrolysis , are being characterized and investigated spectrally in the ultraviolet region with a view to identification and semiquantitative estimation of the phases formed under varying preparative conditions .
structure and properties of macromolecules
Contrary to observations with ethers , no apparent change of the reactivity of the chain ends takes place over considerable periods of time in benzene as solvent .
Organization :
2-2 .
2-3 .
2-4 .
2-5 .
Because individual classes of foods differ in their requirements for preservation , a number of methods have been developed over the years involving one or a combination of procedures such as dehydration , fermentation , salting , chemical treatment , canning , refrigeration , and freezing .
In earlier years , the preservation of food was essentially related to survival .
With the development of nuclear technology , isotopic materials , and machine radiation sources in recent years , the possibilities of applying ionizing radiation to the preservation of foods attracted the attention of investigators in the United States and throughout the world .
Factors responsible for the spoilage of foods
Sprouting is a naturally occurring phenomenon in stored potatoes , onions , carrots , beets , and similar root vegetables .
To permit the storage of food for long periods of time , a method of preservation must accomplish the destruction of microorganisms and inhibition of enzymatic action .
General effects of ionizing radiation
Radiation does not retard the chemical spoilage of food .
The radiation doses required for the preservation of foods are in the following ranges : 1 .
For radiosterilization , to destroy all organisms for long-term preservation -- about 4.5 Mrad for nonacid foods of low salt content .
For radiopasteurization , to partially destroy microorganisms ; ;
For destruction of insects -- about 25,000 Aj .
For inhibiting the sprouting of root vegetables -- 4,000 to 10,000 Aj .
Preserving foods with ionizing radiation leads to some undesirable side effects , particularly at the higher radiation dosages .
Radiation sources
Of the potentially useful sources of ionizing radiations , gamma sources , cobalt-60 , cesium-137 , fission products , or a reactor irradiation loop system using a material such as an indium salt have received most attention for food-preservation systems .
Costs of the effective energy produced by these sources is a major obstacle in the development of food-preservation processes .
Because agricultural activities are seasonal and the areas of production and harvest of many foods are widely scattered geographically , and because of the high cost of transporting bulk food items any substantial distance to a central processing location , the use of large central processing stations , where low-cost radiation facilities approaching the megawatt range might be utilized , is inherently impracticable .
Present status of irradiation preservation of foods
Radiopasteurization , which produces fewer adverse sensory changes in food products , has potential usefulness in prolonging the keeping qualities of fresh and refrigerated food items .
The present status of food preservation by ionizing radiation is discussed by food classes in the following paragraphs .
Off-flavor is a less severe problem with the radiopasteurization of meats , but problems of commercial acceptability remain .
When lamb and mutton are irradiated at substerilization doses , the meat becomes dehydrated , the fat becomes chalky , and , again , unnatural changes in color occur .
Ground meats such as fresh pork sausage and hamburger have a relatively short shelf life under refrigeration , and radiopasteurization might be thought to offer distinctly improved keeping qualities .
Specialty cooked items containing meat portions , as in `` frozen dinners '' might offer a potential use for radiopasteurization .
Competitive processes for preserving meats are by canning and freezing .
Furthermore , it has made an exact assessment of the removal mechanisms possible .
The instrument is shown in Fig. 1 and consists essentially of a hard , sharp , tungsten carbide knife which is pushed along the substrate to remove the coating .
Hesiometer results have been found to compare excellently with manual knife scratching tests .
The pictures of Figs. 3 and 4 show the cracking and peeling types of removal where the coating is detached by failure in a region at , or close to , the interface between coating and substrate .
If the force required to remove the coatings is plotted against film thickness , a graph as illustrated schematically in Fig. 5 may characteristically result .
It should be recalled that these three mechanisms can occur on the same coating deposited upon the same substrate merely as a function of changes in coatings thickness .
Cutting mechanism of cohesive failure
An analysis of the vector relationships shows that the rake angle **yc and the friction angle **yt determine the vector direction Af of the force resultants R and Af .
It is difficult to measure the direction and magnitude of R directly .
If the cutting force , Af , is plotted against film thickness , a straight line should result passing through the origin and having slope Af .
Blunt knife
The force vector concept of Fig. 6 can readily be applied to this condition also .
Knife friction
The value of Af can readily be assessed by determining the frictional force exerted on the knife while running over the previously stripped coating track under various external loadings .
.
These theoretical relationships are more clearly illustrated in Fig. 7 and their sum can be seen to correlate in form with practical measurements made with the Hesiometer as illustrated in the first portion of Fig. 5 for the cutting mechanism .
Chipping mechanism of cohesive failure
The basic difference between the continuous cutting mechanism and that of the chipping mechanism is that instead of shear occurring in the coating ahead of the knife continuously without fracture , rupture intermittently occurs along the shear plane .
By studying high speed movies made of this type of failure , the sequence of relationships as schematically illustrated in Fig. 9 could be observed .
In the first picture ( 9a ) the knife is just beginning to advance into the inclined surface which was left from the previous chip formation .
Merchant has found that the same basic relationships which describe the geometry and force systems in the case of the cutting mechanism can also be applied to the discontinuous chip formation provided the proper values of instantaneous shear angle and instantaneous chip thickness or cross-sectional area are used .
The cracking mechanism
Within only a few years , foamed plastics materials have managed to grow into an integral , and important , phase of the plastics industry -- and the end is still not yet in sight .
On the following pages , each of the major commercial foamed plastics is described in detail , as to properties , applications , and methods of processing .
It might be well to point out , however , some of the newer developments that have taken place within the past few months which might have a bearing on the future of the various foamed plastics involved .
New techniques for automatic molding of expandable styrene beads have helped boost that particular material into a number of new consumer applications , including picnic chests , beverage coolers , flower pots , and flotation-type swimming toys .
In vinyl foam , the big news was the development of techniques for coating fabrics with the material ( for details , see P. 395 ) .
Readers interested in additional information on foams are referred to the Foamed Plastics Chart appearing in the Technical Data section and to the list of references which appears below .
Urethane foams
The most important factor in determining what properties the end-product will have is quite naturally the type of hydroxyl-rich compound that is used in its production .
Although the first polyether foams on the market had to be produced by the two-step prepolymer method , today , thanks to new catalysts , they can be produced by a one-shot technique .
The polyester urethane foam is generally produced with adipic acid polyesters ; ;
Slab stock is still one of the most important forms of urethane end-product in use today .
Much has been done in the way of ingenious slitters to fabricate the slab stock into finished products .
The low cost and ease of fabrication of the dies for three-dimensional foam cutting plus the wide variety of shapes , dimensions , and contours that can be tailor-made to customer requirements has made the technique useful for producing case liners , materials handling containers , packaging and cushioning devices , and such novelties as soap dishes , toys , head rests , arch supports , and gas pedal covers .
The closed molding of flexible urethane foams has been a problem ever since the introduction of the material ( molding in open molds was more feasible ) .
Temperature of the wash and rinse waters is maintained at 85 - 90-degrees-F ( 29 - 32-degrees-C ) .
The suds box drain is arranged at the start to deliver into the raised main drain pipe ( thus returning suds to soap box ) and the machine is started .
By this procedure rinsing progresses in two stages , first by dilution until the time when the drains are separated and thereafter by displacement of the soil-bearing liquor by clean rinse water , since soiled liquor squeezed from the specimens at the nip passes directly to waste from the suds box drains .
Suggested evaluation and classification
Purpose and scope
Table 1 , summarizes all of the various washing , drying , and restoration procedures available .
Principle
Apparatus and materials
The wheel ( cage ) is 20 to 24 inches inside diameter and 20 to 24 inches inside length .
A domestic automatic washer that will give equivalent results may be used .
Any flat-bed press capable of pressing a specimen 22 inches square may be used as an alternative .
The dryer is provided with a means of maintaining a drying temperature of 120-degrees - 160-degrees-F ( 49*0 - 71*&0C. ) , measured in the exhaust vent as close as possible to the drying chamber .
Drying room -- facilities for drip- or line-drying .
Extractor -- centrifugal extractor of the laundry-type with a perforated basket , approximately 11 inches deep by 17 inches in diameter , with an operating speed of approximately 1,500 r.p.m. .
Pen and ink , indelible -- or other suitable marking device .
measuring scale --
Soap , neutral chip -- fed. Spec. 566 or Aj .
Softener -- e.g. sodium metaphosphate or sodium hexametaphosphate ( if needed in hard water areas ) .
Detergent , synthetic -- alkylarysulfonate type .
Flatiron , electric -- approximately 3 lb.
Two of the clamps are fixed to the edges of the board whereas two clamps travel on guide rails opposite the fixed clamps .
Each pin is individually sprung to a tensioning member which is driven outwardly in the slot .
Test specimens
Three specimens for each sample to be tested are required in order to arrive at a satisfactory average of performance .
Specimens are allowed to reach moisture equilibrium with a standard atmosphere of Af and Af and then laid out without tension on a flat , polished surface , care being taken that the fabric is free from wrinkles or creases .
Generally , it is necessary to mark distances on a specimen ( or garment ) in both lengthwise and widthwise directions and to measure before and after laundering .
Each specimen is at least 25 inches by 25 inches .
Each specimen is approximately 16 inches square .
Critical measurements in length and width directions should be taken before and after washing , drying , and restorative procedures .
Procedure
Place the specimen in the wash wheel with sufficient other similar fabric to make a dry load of Af pounds .
-- Run the machine continuously until completion of the test .
High-gain , photoelectronic image intensification is applied under conditions of low incident light levels whenever the integration time required by a sensor or recording instrument exceeds the limits of practicability .
High-gain photoelectronic image intensification may be achieved by several methods ; ;
Cascading single stages by coupling lens systems is rather inefficient as the lens systems limit the obtainable gain quite severely .
Cascaded single stages enclosed by a common envelope have been constructed with high gain and high resolution .
An electrostatic system suffers generally from image plane curvature leading to defocusing in the peripheral image region if a flat viewing screen ( or interstage coupler ) is utilized , while a magnetic system requires accurate adjustment of the solenoid , which is heavy and bulky .
It is felt that fiber-coupled double- ( and multi- ) stage image intensifiers will gain considerable importance in the future .
It will be shown theoretically that the high image intensification obtainable with such a tube and contact photography permits the utilization of extremely low incident light levels .
After these theoretical considerations , constructional details of a fiber-coupled , double-stage X-ray image intensifier will be discussed .
The conclusion shall be reached that fiber-coupled , double-stage tubes represent a sensible and practical approach to high-gain image intensification .
Basic design of a fiber-coupled , double-stage image intensifier
Both the photocathode and the image plane of such an electrode configuration are curved concave as seen from the anode aperture .
The second photocathode and both phosphor surfaces are deposited on the fiber plate substrates .
Theoretical discussion of flux gain
The luminous efficiency Af of a photocathode depends on the maximum radiant sensitivity Af and on the spectral distribution of the incident light Af by the relation : Af where Af is normalized radiant photocathode sensitivity .
The angle Af is measured in the medium of index Af .
A sufficiently good approximation for determining the end reflection losses R can be obtained from the angle independent Fresnel formula : Af .
As the index of refraction of photosensitive surfaces of the SbCs-type lies around 2 , the Fresnel losses at the fiber-photocathode interface are about 0.5 percent and the Af factor for the interstage coupler is 0.95 .
The internal losses are due to absorption and the small but finite losses suffered in the numerous internal reflections due to deviations from the prescribed , cylindrical fiber cross-section and minute imperfections of the core-jacket interface .
The packing efficiency , F.R. , of fiber plates did not receive much attention in the literature , probably as it is high for the larger fibers generally used , until rather recently .
Thus , the efficiency **yt couplers is given by -- Af or approximately 50 percent each .
It must be remembered that the fiber plates replace a glass window and a ( mica ) membrane , in addition to an optical output lens system .
We have evaluated the `` matching integrals '' for two types of photocathodes ( S-11 and S-20 ) and three types of light input .
Theoretical discussion of paraxial device resolution
The resolution capabilities of an electrostatic system depend on both the choice of magnification and chromatic aberrations .
Furthermore , the chromatic aberrations depend on the chosen high voltage .
The luminous gain of the discussed tube was calculated from Eq. ( 6 ) for the 16 possible combinations of S-11 and S-20 photocathodes and P-11 and P-20 phosphor screens , for night light and P-20 light input .
.
The possibility of a space charge blowup of the screen crossover of the elementary electron bundles has been pointed out .
Electrostatic systems of the pseudo-symmetric type have been tested for resolution capabilities by applying electronography .
The inherent resolution of a cathodoluminescent phosphor screen decreases with increasingly aggregate thickness ( with increasing anode voltage ) , decreases with decreasing porosity ( thus the advantage of cathodophoretic phosphor deposition ) and might be impaired by the normally used aluminum mirror .
The set of all decisions is called the operating policy or , more simply , the policy .
The essential characteristic of an optimal policy when the state of the stream is transformed in a sequence of stages with no feedback was first isolated by Bellman .
To see how important this economy is , let us suppose that there are M operating variables at each stage and that the state is specified by N variables ; ;
The principle of optimality thus brings a vital organization into the search for the optimal policy of a multistage decision process .
`` An optimal policy has the property that whatever the initial state and initial decision are , the remaining decisions must constitute an optimal policy with respect to the state resulting from the first decision '' .
This is the principle which we will invoke in every case to set up a functional equation .
2.2 the discrete deterministic process
An optimal policy is an admissible policy Af which maximizes the objective function P .
For any choice of admissible policy Af in the first stage , the state of the stream leaving this stage is given by Af .
The set of equations ( 5 ) , ( 6 ) , and the starting equation ( 7 ) is of a recursive type well suited to programming on the digital computer .
To extract the optimal R-stage policy with respect to the feed state Af , we enter section R of this table at the state Af and find immediately from the last column the maximum value of the objective function .
It may be that the objective function depends not only on Af but also on Af , as when the cost of the operating policy is considered .
2.3 the discrete stochastic process
We cannot now speak of maximizing the value of the objective function , since this function is now known only in a probabilistic sense .
The type of presentation of results used in the deterministic process may be used here , except that now the fourth column is redundant .
2.4 the continuous deterministic process
A gyro-stabilized platform system , using restrained gyros , is well suited for automatic leveling because of the characteristics of the gyro-platform-servo combination .
The platform angle **yf is the angle about which the gyro is controlling .
Thus if the gyro and platform-controller combination maintains the platform with zero angular deviation about the **yf axis , the system can be rotated with an angular velocity Af if a torque is supplied to the gyro output axis Aj .
In the system shown in Fig. 7-1 , the accelerometer output is amplified and the resulting voltage is applied to the gyro output-axis torquer .
A mathematical block diagram for the leveling system is shown in Fig. 7-2 .
When the frequency response characteristics of practical components are considered , their effect on stability does not present the most serious limit on the system loop gain .
It must be noticed in Fig. 7-1 that the accelerometer responds to any input acceleration .
One of the most desirable solutions is achieved by the use of a non-linear amplifier for Af .
When the system is on automatic leveling , the gyro drift is canceled by the output of the leveling system ( amplifier Af ) .
7-3 .
The automatic leveling system described in this section is readily adaptable to a gyro-stabilized platform consisting of three integrating gyros .
This leveling system will hold the platform on-level , automatically , as long as the system is actuated .
The leveling process can be accomplished manually , and the results are as satisfactory as those obtained with automatic equipment .
Manual leveling requires an appropriate display of the accelerometer outputs .
Manual leveling is inconvenient if the platform must be maintained accurately level for any prolonged period of time .
7-4 .
Platform heading consists of orienting the sensitive axis of the accelerometers parallel to the desired coordinate system of the navigator .
For purely inertial navigators , two techniques are available to accomplish the platform heading : Use of external or surveying equipment to establish proper heading ; ;
Use of the characteristics of the platform components for an indication of true heading .
7-5 .
With the gyro-stabilized platform leveled , it can be headed in the proper direction by using surveying techniques .
A precision transit is set up so that it is aligned with respect to true north .
The sighting procedure includes the use of a fixture for the transit to project a beam of light , which is darkened by crossed hairs , on the accelerometer mirror .
Although this technique is simple and satisfactory , one practical difficulty does exist : the direction of true north must be known for each launch point .
In many installations , the inertial platform is raised off the ground a considerable height when it is mounted in the vehicle before flight .
The transit can be replaced by an autocollimator .
It is possible to locate an angular electrical pickoff , which will indicate the angular deviation between the true heading direction and the platform .
7-6 .
Gyrocompass alignment is an automatic heading system which depends upon the characteristic of one gyro to establish true heading .
Figure 7-3 shows a platform system with the gyro vectors arranged as described above .
The input axis of the X gyro , when pointing in the east-west direction , is always perpendicular to the spin axis of earth .
In Fig. 7-4 , the input axis of the three-axis platform is shown at some point on the earth .
Thirty-three
Scotty accepted the decision with indifference and did not enter the arguments .
He was discharged from the hospital after a two-day checkup and he and his parents had what Mr. McKinley described as a `` celebration lunch '' at the cafeteria on the campus .
Teachers -- men who wore brown suits and had gray hair and pleasant smiles -- came to their table to talk shop and to be introduced to Scotty and Rachel .
`` The blueberry pie is good , Scotty .
`` He's all right , Craig '' , Rachel said .
Since his seizure , Scotty had had little appetite ; ;
Rachel had little to say .
Rachel said , `` I'd better get him to bed '' .
The doctors had suggested Scotty remain most of every afternoon in bed until he was stronger .
Since Mr. McKinley had to give a lecture , Rachel and Scotty drove home alone in the Plymouth .
Scotty looked at the children , his mouth slightly opened , his eyes dull .
Thirty-four
`` You don't eat enough , honey .
Rachel , observing , would say , `` He has to rediscover his own capacity .
Virginia and Rachel talked to each other quietly now , as allies who are political rather than natural might in a war atmosphere .
He had not mentioned Kate .
Rachel mentioned Kate .
Scotty said , `` That's all right .
Once , sitting at the front window in his parents' room , he saw Kate come out of her house .
The doctor , since Scotty was no longer allowed to make his regular trips into town to see him , came often and informally to the house .
`` Husky young man '' , he said with mock distaste .
`` I don't go to school any more '' .
`` Pardon '' ? ?
Rachel stayed on after the doctor had gone .
She said , `` Do you think you'll miss school '' ? ?
He had noticed how formal and irritably exact Rachel had grown .
`` We've had any number of calls about you .
Scotty shrugged slightly .
She turned to him again .
Scotty said , `` I don't know '' .
`` Well , there's time , in any case .
Scotty said , `` Okay '' .
This time Rachel kissed him lightly on the forehead .
His father was a constant visitor .
`` How's Scotty '' ? ?
And Rachel's or Virginia's reply : `` better .
`` Is his appetite improved '' ? ?
The exchange was almost invariable , and Scotty , in his bed , could hear every word of it .
Scotty would reply softly and his father , apologetically , would ask him to repeat .
`` I'm eating more '' , he would say .
`` Perhaps you should get out a little '' .
`` I'm not supposed to yet '' .
Mr. McKinley examined everything with critical care , seeking something material to blame for his son's illness .
`` Have you got enough blankets '' ? ?
Where their sharp edges seemed restless as sea waves thrusting themselves upward in angry motion , Papa-san sat glacier-like , his smooth solidity , his very immobility defying all the turmoil about him .
Between the ponderous hulk and himself , in the valley over which Papa-san reigned , men had hidden high explosives , booby traps , and mines .
Pressing his cigarette out in the earth , Warren walked to the slit and scanned the jagged hills .
There were ten men on the patrol which Sergeant Prevot led out that next night .
At 2130 hours they had passed through the barbed wire at the point of departure .
Because they were new men and to be sure that they didn't get lost , Prevot had placed Warren and White in the center of the patrol as it filed out .
Soon they were picking their way along the edge of the stream which glowed in the night .
Prevot came up `` .
Lying in the grass behind the brush clump , Warren looked about .
Warren eased his rifle's safety off and gently , slowly sneaked another clip of ammunition from one of the cloth bandoleers that marked the upper part of his body with an Aj .
Above , the glowing ivory baton of their searchlight pointed at the clouds , diluting the valley's dark to a pallid light .
-- In France he had puzzled the meaning of the great stone monuments men had thrown up to the sky , and always as he wandered , he felt a stranger to their exultation .
Pierre had no hands ; ;
`` Wait ! !
`` C'est formidable '' , they exclaimed .
`` Mais , oui .
And then the questions came , eager , interested questions , and many compliments on his having overcome his infirmity .
`` Doesn't it ever bother you '' , Warren had asked , `` to have people always asking you about your hands '' ? ?
`` Oh , the French are a very curious people '' , Pierre had laughed .
That was the day that Pierre had told Warren about the Abbey of Solesmes .
Within two weeks Warren was ringing the bell at the abbey gate .
Mickie sat over his second whisky-on-the-rocks in a little bar next to the funeral parlor on Pennsylvania Avenue .
This was one place where Moonan could go for a drink in a back booth without anyone noticing him , or at least coming up and hanging around and wanting to know all the low-down .
His friend Jane was with him .
Jane sat receptive and interested .
`` But when it comes to war , the Colonel knows what it is and Jeff doesn't .
Jane nodded with a pleasant smile .
`` All right .
`` The Negro got a bad slice on his chest from the knife wound '' .
`` What did the Colonel do about the men '' ? ?
Mickie laughed .
Jefferson Lawrence was alone at the small , perfectly appointed table by the window looking out over the river .
He had not because he was both poor and ambitious .
Lawrence was waiting for Bill Boxell .
A half hour later the Vice President arrived .
He said to the Secretary , `` I understand you came from a little Pennsylvania town near Wilkes-Barre .
It was not a discourteous question , Lawrence decided .
The Vice President said , `` If you hear of any names that would fix me cheap in return for advertising they decorated the Vice President's home , let me know .
Again , Lawrence thought a little sadly , these were the fees of poverty and ambition .
They had brandy in the library .
The Vice President said with a slight bluster , `` There isn't anyone who loves the President more than I do .
Lawrence listened with the practiced , deceptive calm of the lawyer , but his face was in the shadow .
`` So , we have to protect the old man for his own good .
The Bishop looked at him coldly and said , `` Take it or leave it '' ! !
Literally , there was nothing else to do .
Annisberg was about seventy-five miles west of Birmingham , near the Georgia border and on the Tallahoosa River , a small and dirty stream .
Wilson came by train from Birmingham and looked the city over ; ;
He was a loud-voiced man , once vigorous but for many years now declining in strength and ability .
Wilson , on his first Sunday , witnessed this with something like disgust .
During the next weeks he looked over the situation .
Ann Catt was a lonely , devoted soul , never married , conducting a spotless home and devoted to her church , but a perpetual dissenter and born critic .
Then Wilson looked over the church and studied its condition .
On the other side of the church was a quiet , well-kept house with shutters and recently painted .
The rest of Black Bottom was a rabbit warren of homes in every condition of neglect , disrepair and careful upkeep .
After looking about a bit , Wilson discovered beyond Black Bottom , across the river and far removed from the white city , a considerable tract of land , and it occurred to him that the church and the better Negro homes might gradually be moved to this plot .
Wilson stressed the fact that clear as this was , they must have a better church , a more business-like conduct of the church organization , and an effort to get this religious center out of its rut of wild worship into a modern church organization .
It did seem impossible .
But when this proposal was made to his Deacon Board , he met unanimous opposition .
Wilson again went downtown to a different banker , an intelligent young white man who seemed rather sympathetic , but he shook his head .
`` Reverend '' , he said , `` I think you don't quite understand the situation here .
Then Wilson asked , `` What about this Kent House which you mention ? ?
The young banker looked at him with a certain surprise , and then he said flatly : `` I'm afraid I can't tell you anything in particular about Kent House .
It was next day that Sojourner came and sat beside him and took his hand .
`` No '' , said Wilson , `` I don't .
`` It's a house of prostitution for white men with white girls as inmates .
Wilson stared at her .
`` Talk to Mrs. Catt '' , she said .
And after Wilson had talked to Mrs. Catt and to others , he was absolutely amazed .
But this situation of Kent House was more subtle .
Payne dismounted in Madison Place and handed the reins to Herold .
The pretence was that he was delivering a prescription from Dr. Verdi .
Before Payne loomed the Old Clubhouse , Seward's home , where Key had once been killed .
A nigger boy opened the door .
For a moment the hall confused him .
He explained his errand , but without bothering much to make it plausible , for he felt something well up in him which was the reason why he had fled the army .
Still , the sensation always surprised him .
He brushed by the idiotic boy and lumbered heavily up the stairs .
At the top of the stairs he ran into somebody standing there angrily in a dressing gown .
Frederick Seward said his father was sleeping , and then went through a pantomime at his father's door , to prove the statement .
`` Very well '' , Payne said .
It was the first blow that was always difficult .
The nigger boy fled down the stairs , screaming , `` Murder '' .
It was not murder at all .
He ran for the sick room , found his pistol was broken , and threw it away .
Two men pulled him off .
`` I'm mad '' , shouted Payne , as he ran out into the hall .
He clattered down the stairs and out of the door .
Well , one did not expect much of people like Herold .
He unhitched his horse , walked it away , mounted , and spurred it on .
He felt curiously sleepy , the world seemed far away ; ;
Violence always made him tired , but he was not frightened .
In Boston , Edwin Booth was winding up a performance of A New Way To Pay Old Debts .
As Sir Giles Overreach ( how often had he had to play that part , who did not believe a word of it ) , he raised his arm and declaimed : `` Where is my honour now '' ? ?
That was one of the high spots of the play .
Everyone is ambivalent about his profession , if he has practised it long enough , but there were still moments when he loved the stage and all those unseen people out there , who might cheer you or boo you , but that was largely , though not entirely , up to you .
They made the world seem friendly somehow , though he knew it was not .
7 ,
She had been one of the first to collect her wits .
It was not so much that the shot had stunned the audience , as that they had been stunned already .
The stage had been empty , except for Harry Hawk , doing his star monologue .
`` Well , I guess I know enough to turn you inside out , you sockdologizing old mantrap '' ! !
That was when the gun went off .
Then the audience saw a small , dim figure appear at the edge of the Presidential box .
They strained forward .
Harry Hawk still had his arm raised towards the wings .
The figure was so theatrically dressed , that it was as though a character from some other play had blundered into this one .
Then it disappeared into the wings .
Harry Hawk had not shifted position , but he at last lowered his arm .
Mrs. Lincoln screamed .
Clara Harris , one of the guests in the box , stood up and demanded water .
Mrs. Lincoln screamed again .
In the Presidential box someone leaned over the balustrade and yelled : `` He has shot the President '' ! !
That got everybody up .
At the rear of the auditorium , upstairs , some men tried to push open the door to the box corridor .
A Dr. Charles Taft clambered up on the stage and got the actors to hoist him up to the box .
Someone opened the corridor door from the inside , and called for a doctor .
As usual , Mrs. Lincoln had lost her head , but nobody blamed her for doing so now .
With a sneer , the man spread his legs and , a third time , confronted them .
Once more , Katie reared , and whinnied in fear .
The stranger leered .
Katie scrambled to her feet , Stevie agilely retaining his seat .
They rode around and around to trample the figure into the sand .
A train hooted .
`` Stevie ! !
His mother was nudging him , but he was still falling .
`` Stevie , wake up now ! !
He had been dreaming .
The train had slowed .
Chapter 6
He put his head out .
In the kitchen Mama was wiping the cupboards .
`` There's a tower and a steeple on the church a million feet high .
`` I know , Stephen '' , she smiled .
He dressed , and sped outdoors .
Port Jervis , basking in the foothills , was the city of God .
God was everywhere , in the belfry , in the steeple , in the clouds , in the trees , and in the mountains hulking on the horizon .
So , walking in awe , he became familiar with God , who resided chiefly in Drew Centennial Church with its high steeple and clock .
The veterans , idling on their benches in the Square , beneath the soldiers' monument , got to their feet when Papa approached : `` Morning , Reverend '' ! !
`` We have nine hundred and eleven members in our charge '' , Mama announced , `` and three hundred and eighty Sunday-school scholars '' .
When Papa went out to do God's work , Stevie often accompanied him in the buggy , which was drawn by Violet , the new black mare .
In the Delaware River , three long islands were overgrown with greening trees and underbrush .
On these excursions , Papa instructed him on man's chief end , which was his duty to God and his own salvation .
`` Where you been today '' ? ?
`` No , he won't '' ! !
`` Somebody's got to be a preacher in the family .
`` Will he die '' ? ?
`` Everybody does '' .
Ludie could be hateful .
Stevie was constantly slipping into the church .
The boy shuddered at the deathly pale countenance with its wrinkles and gray hair .
`` It's time you began to think on God , Stephen .
Stevie had heard these words many times , yet on each occasion they caused him to tremble .
Papa was disappointed that none of the brothers had heard the Call .
He must not fail to hear it .
Lightning could strike you blind if you were a sinner ! !
He ran out into the downpour , sped across the yard and into the buggy room .
After the storm , the sky cleared blue and cool , and fragrant air swept the hills .
He trailed Ludie to the baseball game in the lot on Kingston Street near the Dutch Reformed .
`` Go on home '' ! !
No one told on Ludie , not even when he slipped live grasshoppers into the mite-box .
Ludie took his slingshot and climbed to the rooftop to shoot at crows .
Stevie envied him .
He meandered down Pike Street , past the First National Bank with its green window shades .
`` P. J. '' -- as Ludie called the town -- was crowded with summer people who came to the mountains to escape the heat in the big cities .
If the crummy bastard could write ! !
His thoughts turned to other things .
He had been pretty scared himself , wondering what the hell was coming off .
`` Boy , you're stirrin early '' , a sleepy voice said .
`` Yehhh '' , said Coughlin , testily , eyeing him up and down .
`` Lookit that come down , willya '' , said the man , scratching himself , yawning .
`` Yehhh '' , said Coughlin , practically spitting on him .
The man moved away .
That's the way .
`` You , Listen ! !
The man shrank before the hot fury , searching frantically for the answer .
Finnegan woke up .
From somewhere in the hut came Coughlin's voice .
`` How long did you study ? ?
`` For Christ's sake '' ! !
`` Don't Christsake me , buddy ! !
I'm no hero .
Brandon dreamed .
Rousseau is so persuasive that Voltaire is almost convinced that he should burn his books , too .
`` You must be a very learned man '' , says Voltaire to one of the bandits .
`` A learned man '' ? ?
But Voltaire perseveres .
The chief , annoyed by these questions , knocks Voltaire down and shouts at him that he not only never went to any school , but never even learned how to read .
When finally the two bedraggled men reach their friend's home , Voltaire's fears are once again aroused .
To Voltaire's surprise , however , their host gives them fresh clothes to put on , opens his purse to lend them money and sits them down before a good dinner .
Immediately after dinner , however , Rousseau asks for still another favor .
Such was the impromptu that Voltaire gave to howls of laughter at Sans Souci and that was soon circulated in manuscript throughout the literary circles of Europe , to be printed sometime later , but with the name of Timon of Athens , the famous misanthrope , substituted for that of Rousseau .
How cruel ! !
But at the same time how understandable .
How , for example , could a Voltaire understand the strange predicament in which a Rousseau would find himself when , soon after the furor of his first Discourse , he acquired still another title to fame ? ?
This time as a musician .
Ever since he had first begun to study music and to teach it , Rousseau had dreamed of piercing through to fame as the result of a successful opera .
But then one day , while on a week's visit to the country home of a retired Swiss jeweler , Rousseau amused the company with a few little melodies he had written , to which he attached no great importance .
`` Put a few such songs together '' , they urged him .
He didn't believe them .
`` Heaven forbid '' ! !
And they wouldn't leave off arguing and pleading until he had promised .
Oh , the irony and the bitterness of it ! !
Or at least appear to reject it ! !
But what else could he do ? ?
And the fault , of course , was Rameau's .
But no .
The ladies were delighted and Jean Jacques was applauded .
But then , after the little operetta had been given its feeble amateur rendering , everyone insisted that it was too good to be lost forever , and that the Royal Academy of Music must now have the manuscript in order to give it the really first-rate performance it merited .
Rousseau was aware that he must seem like a hypocrite , standing there and arguing that he could not possibly permit a public performance .
Rousseau had to admit that though he couldn't agree to a public performance , he would indeed , just for his own private satisfaction , dearly love to know how his work would sound when done by professional musicians and by trained voices .
`` I'd simply like to know if it is as good as you kind people seem to think '' , he said .
Duclos , the historian , pointed out to Jean Jacques that this was impossible .
Rousseau agreed .
Duclos understood what was bothering Rousseau : that the writer of the Prosopopoeia of Fabricius should now become known as the writer of an amusing little operetta .
`` Let me do the submitting to the Royal Academy '' , he suggested .
To that Rousseau could agree .
But now what crazy twists and turns of his emotions ! !
Afraid at one and the same time that his work might be turned down -- which would be a blow to his pride even though no one knew he was the author -- and that the work would be accepted , and then that his violent feelings in the matter would certainly betray how deeply concerned he was in spite of himself .
All these emotions were screwed up to new heights when , after acceptance and the first rehearsals , there ensued such a buzz of excitement among Parisian music lovers that Duclos had to come running to Rousseau to inform him that the news had reached the superintendent of the King's amusements , and that he was now demanding that the work be offered first at the royal summer palace of Fontainebleau .
`` What was your answer '' ? ?
`` I refused '' , Duclos said .
How infuriating all this was ! !
Back and forth Duclos had to go , between M. De Cury and Jean Jacques and between the Duke D'Aumont and Jean Jacques again , as his little operetta , The Village Soothsayer , though still unperformed , took on ever more importance .
And of course the news of who the composer was did finally begin to get around among his closest friends .
How titillating it was to go among people who did not know him as the composer , but who talked in the most glowing terms of the promise of the piece after having heard the first rehearsals .
He felt himself now , as he himself says in his Confessions , at a crucial point of his life .
Seeing him in that condition , and about to enter the hall where the King , the Queen , the whole royal family and all the members of the highest aristocracy would be present , Grimm and the Abbe Raynal and others tried to stop him .
`` You can't go in that way '' ! !
`` Why not '' ? ?
`` You haven't dressed for the occasion '' ! !
`` I'm dressed as I always am '' , Rousseau said .
`` At home , yes '' , they argued .
`` If they are here , then surely I have the right to be here '' , Rousseau said .
`` But in such a slovenly condition '' .
`` What is slovenly about me '' ? ?
But of course behind his boldness he didn't feel bold at all .
It was the first time any of us had laughed since the morning began .
The rider from Concord was as good as his word .
`` They're a-coming ! !
We heard him before he ever showed , and we heard him yelling after he was out of sight .
We came down off the wall as if he had toppled all of us , and we crouched behind it .
The gunfire , which was so near that it seemed just a piece up the road now , stopped for long enough to count to twenty ; ;
It was my initiation to war and the insane symphony war plays ; ;
And now the redcoats were coming , and the gunfire was a part of the dust cloud on the road to the west of us .
It was only hours since I had last seen them , but they had changed and I had changed .
`` Committeemen , hold your fire ! !
The front of their column had already passed us , when another officer came riding down the side of the road , not five paces from where we were .
In the course of this , they had fired on us ; ;
I would have stood there and died there if left to myself , but Cousin Simmons grabbed my arm in his viselike grip and fairly plucked me out of there ; ;
We tumbled to a stop in Deacon Gordon's cow hole , a low-lying bit of pasture with a muddy pool of water in its middle .
Meanwhile , I reloaded my gun , as the other men were doing .
Cousin Joshua and some others felt that we should march toward Lexington and take up new positions ahead of the slow-moving British column , but another group maintained that we should stick to this spot and this section of road .
While this was being discussed , we saw the militia to the west of us fanning out and breaking into little clusters of two and three men as they approached the road .
`` It makes sense .
That settled it , and we broke into parties of two and three .
`` Good heavens , Adam '' , he said , `` I thought one thing you'd have no trouble learning is when to get out of a place '' .
`` I learned that now '' , I said .
We ran east for about half a mile before we turned back to the road , panting from the effort and soaked with sweat .
Under the trees , there was a dead redcoat , a young boy with a pasty white skin and a face full of pimples , who had taken a rifle ball directly between the eyes .
`` God's name , what are you to rob the dead with the fight going on '' ! !
They tried to outface him , but Joseph Simmons was as wide as two average men , and it would have taken braver men than these were to outface him .
That summer the gambling houses were closed , despite the threats of Pierre Ameaux , a gaming-card manufacturer .
John's first impulse was to denounce their blasphemy .
The next morning , as the clock struck nine , he appeared at the Council meeting in the Town Hall and insisted that the couple would have to be punished if the Church was to be respected .
`` I have told you before , and I tell you again '' , Monsieur Favre said rudely .
John stiffened in anger .
John's reply was like a declaration of war .
`` What Master Calvin says is true .
Abel Poupin , a tall man with sunken cheeks and deep-set eyes , got to his feet .
Philibert Berthelier , the son of the famous patriot , disagreed .
John was quietly insistent .
A week later the sentence of the Council was carried out : Jake Camaret and the woman were marched naked through the streets past a mocking populace .
John's thoughts raced painfully into the past as he read the letter he had just received from his sister Mary .
John closed his eyes and saw once again the little niche in his mother's bedroom , where she had knelt to tell the good Virgin of her needs .
The white-clad trees stood like specters in the February night .
As he neared the square , a round figure muffled in a long , black cape whisked by .
John leaned upon the stone balustrade .
`` How long , my Lord ? ?
Sleep was difficult these days .
Geneva , instead of becoming the City of God , as John had dreamed , had in the two years since he had been there , continued to be a godless place where all manner of vice flourished .
Tears burned behind his eyes as he prayed and meditated tonight .
The slow tapping of a cane on the stone steps coming up to the tower interrupted his reverie .
`` John ? ?
John stood above him , his face ashen .
`` Plot '' ? ?
`` Monsieur Favre just paid me a visit .
`` What will be the subject '' ? ?
`` You are to be accused of Arianism to confuse the religious who remain loyal '' .
Anger and fear fused in John .
John sighed .
`` There is more to the conspiracy .
`` It was always the spirit with Christ ; ;
The firelight played over Eli's flowing white locks and rugged features .
`` What was your reply to that '' ? ?
`` That I would rather be banished with two such Christians than be made the Chief Syndic '' ! !
The following morning , as John entered the Place Molard on his way to visit a sick refugee , he had a premonition of danger .
`` Are you going to comply with the demands of Bern '' ? ?
`` Arianist '' ! !
John lifted his hand for silence .
Somebody heaved a stone .
When he felt the side of his head , his fingers came away covered with blood .
`` Let him be now '' ! !
The crowd moved back and John started dizzily down the hill .
Standing in the shelter of the tent -- a rejected hospital tent on which the rain now dripped , no longer drumming -- Adam watched his own hands touch the objects on the improvised counter of boards laid across two beer barrels .
He recognized the gesture .
Now the face was his own .
This was Virginia .
He looked out of the tent at the company street .
Over the door was a board with large , inept lettering : home sweet home .
The men were huddled in those lairs .
In that moment of vision Adam heard the voice within himself saying : I must not hate him , I must not hate him or I shall die .
His heart suddenly opened to joy .
He thought that if once , only once , he could talk with Simms Purdew , something about his own life , and all life , would be clear and simple .
If only Simms Purdew could do that , whatever the thing he remembered and told .
Now , Adam , in the gray light of afternoon , stared across at the hut opposite his tent , and thought of Simms Purdew lying in there in the gloom , snoring on his bunk , with the fumes of whisky choking the air .
It was Pullen James , the campmate of Simms Purdew .
Adam stared at the door and remembered that Simms Purdew had been awarded the Medal of Honor for gallantry at Antietam .
The street was again empty .
The form was swathed in an army blanket , much patched , fastened at the neck with a cord .
This was one of the Irish women who had built their own huts down near the river .
Her name was Mollie .
The words ran crazily in his head : Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose in the rain .
Then the words fell into a pattern : `` Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose , Scratching her nose in the rain .
The pattern would not stop .
Suddenly he thought he might weep .
When he had stored his stock in the great oak chest , locked the two big hasps and secured the additional chain , tied the fly of the tent , and picked up the cash box , he moved up the darkening street .
Then what ? ?
Far off , in the dusk , he heard voices singing , muffled but strong .
He thought : I am a Jew from Bavaria .
He was standing there , he thought , in Virginia , in the thickening dusk , in a costly greatcoat that had belonged to another Jew .
What had that man , that other young Jew , felt as he stood in the twilight and heard other men , far away , singing together ? ?
Adam thought of the hutments , regiment after regiment , row after row , the thousands of huts , stretching away into the night .
He thought of Simms Purdew rising up , fearless in glory .
Then he thought of Aaron Blaustein standing in his rich house saying : `` God is tired of taking the blame .
He thought of the old man laughing under the glitter of the great chandelier .
He thought : Only in my heart can I make the world hang together .
Adam rose from the crouch necessary to enter the hut .
Adam nodded .
`` Yeah '' , Mose murmured , `` yeah .
Adam looked at the pot .
`` Chicken '' , Mose said , and theatrically licked his lips .
Then : `` yeah .
He dumped the pan of crumbled hardtack into the boiling pot of lobscouse .
Adam shook his head .
`` Chicken '' , Mose said .
She was a child too much a part of her environment , too eager to grow and learn and experience .
Some liar's logic , a wisp of optimism as fragile as the scent of tropical blossoms that came through the window ( a euphoria perhaps engendered by the pill Fritzie had given her ) , consoled her for a moment .
In the darkness , she saw him stirring .
Laura touched his hand .
Tuesday
When the parents emerged from the bedroom a few minutes later , the maid greeted them quietly .
Moll took his coffee into the nursery .
`` Sleep well '' ? ?
Andrus did not answer him .
`` Few crank calls '' , McFeeley said .
`` Didn't occur to me my child would be kidnaped when I had it listed '' , Andrus muttered .
The three had little to say to each other .
McFeeley told the parents he would escort them to police headquarters in a half hour .
Outside , only a handful of reporters remained .
One of the reporters called to him : `` Anything new , Lieutenant '' ? ?
Inside , as soon as Mr. Skopas had disclosed -- in a hoarse whisper -- the detective's errand , his family gathered in a huddle , forming a mass of dark flesh on and around a brocaded sofa which stood at one side of a baroque fireplace .
It was amazing how they had herded together for protection : an enormous matriarch in a quilted silk wrapper , rising from the breakfast table ; ;
They answered him in monosyllables , nods , occasionally muttering in Greek to one another , awaiting the word from Papa , who restlessly cracked his knuckles , anxious to stuff himself into his white Cadillac and burst off to the freeway .
He had spoken to Mrs. .
The door was answered by a slender man in his sixties -- straight-backed , somewhat clerical in manner , wearing rimless glasses .
`` Funny thing '' , Mr. Kahler said , when they were seated , `` when I heard you ringing , I figured it was that guy down the block , Hausman '' .
In the dim underwater light they dressed and straightened up the room , and then they went across the hall to the kitchen .
`` Do you want to call Eugene '' ? ?
He didn't , but it was not really a question , and so he left the room , walked down the hall to the front of the apartment , hesitated , and then knocked lightly on the closed door of the study .
`` Le petit dejeuner '' , Harold said , in an accent that did credit to Miss Sloan , his high-school French teacher .
Since ordinary breakfast-table conversation was impossible , it was at least something that they were able to offer Eugene the sugar bowl with their sugar in it , and the plate of bread and butter , and that Eugene could return the pitcher of hot milk to them handle first .
They assured him that they did not expect or need to be entertained .
Harold put a teaspoonful of powdered coffee in his cup and filled it with hot water , and then , stirring , he sat back in his chair .
Eugene was not entirely silent , or openly rude -- unless asking Harold to move to another chair and placing himself in the fauteuil that creaked so alarmingly was an act of rudeness .
Through the open window they heard sounds below in the street : cartwheels , a tired horse's plodding step , voices .
Eugene offered Harold his car , to use at any time he cared to , and when this offer was not accepted , the armchair creaked .
`` Excuse me '' , he said in Berlitz English , and got up and left them , to bathe and dress .
The first shrill ring of the telephone brought Harold out into the hall .
`` Sabine called a few minutes ago '' , Eugene said .
He handed Harold a key to the front door , and cautioned him against leaving it unlocked while they were out of the apartment .
When enough time had elapsed so that there was little likelihood of his returning for something he had forgotten , Harold went out into the hall and stood looking into one room after another .
With the metal shutters closed , the dining room was so dark that it seemed still night in there .
Though , taken individually , the big rooms were , or seemed to be , square , the apartment as a whole formed a triangle .
The concierge called out to them as they were passing through the foyer .
He waited until they were inside the elevator and then said : `` Now what do we do '' ? ?
`` Call the Vouillemont , I guess '' .
`` I guess '' .
Rather than sit around waiting for the suitcases to be delivered , they had gone sight-seeing .
`` Do you think he could be having an affair '' ? ?
`` Oh no '' , Harold said , shocked .
`` Well , this is France , after all '' .
`` I know , but there must be some other explanation .
`` And for that he needs a little bag '' ? ?
They went shopping in the neighborhood , and bought two loaves of bread with the ration coupons they had been given in Blois , and some cheese , and a dozen eggs , and a bag of oranges from a peddler in the Place Redoute -- the first oranges they had seen since they landed .
He went down the hall to Eugene's bathroom , to turn on the hot-water heater , and on the side of the tub he saw a pair of blue wool swimming trunks .
`` What is it '' ? ?
`` What boat '' ? ?
`` There's a big boat anchored near the Place De La Concorde , with a swimming pool in it -- didn't you notice it ? ?
She looked at him in surprise .
`` I know '' , he said , reading her mind .
`` I don't know what I'm going to do with you '' .
`` It's because we are in France '' , he said , `` and know so few people .
`` All because I didn't feel like dancing '' .
`` I don't think it was that , really '' .
`` Then what was it '' ? ?
`` I don't know .
And the thing about hurt feelings , the wet bathing suit pointed out , is that the person who has them is not quite the innocent party he believes himself to be .
Fortunately , the embarrassing questions raised by objects do not need to be answered , or we would all have to go sleep in the open fields .
He brought with him a mixture of myrrh and aloes , of about a hundred pounds' weight .
Listed as present at the Descent were Mary , Mary's sister , Mary Magdalene , John , Joseph of Arimathea , Nicodemus .
In his concept there could be no one else present .
His first desire was to create a mother and son alone in the universe .
He felt close to Mary , having spent so long concentrating on the beginning of her journey .
It was a relief to shift in his mind to technical problems .
There was only one way to accomplish this : by design , by drawing diagrams and sketches in which he probed the remotest corner of his mind for creative ideas to carry his concept .
He started by making free sketches to loosen up his thinking so that images would appear on paper .
Discovering that draperies could be designed to serve structural purposes , he began a study of the anatomy of folds .
`` So that's sculpture '' , commented Argiento wryly , when he had sluiced down the floor for a week , `` making mud pies '' .
Michelangelo grinned .
He went into the Jewish quarter , wanting to draw Hebraic faces so that he could reach a visual understanding of how Christ might have looked .
The men did not object to his sketching them while they went about their work , but no one could be persuaded to come to his studio to pose .
`` The Bible forbids us to bow down to or to make graven images .
`` But , Rabbi Melzi , you don't object to others creating works of art '' ? ?
`` Not at all .
`` I am carving a Pieta from white Carrara marble .
The rabbi said thoughtfully , `` I would not want my people to get in trouble with the Church '' .
`` I am working for the Cardinal of San Dionigi .
`` What kind of models would you prefer '' ? ?
`` Workmen .
Rabbi Melzi smiled at him with infinitely old but merry eyes .
`` Leave me your address .
His first model arrived at dusk .
Mary presented quite a different problem .
Jacopo Galli introduced him into several Roman homes .
He spent concentrated weeks putting his two figures together : a Mary who would be young and sensitive , yet strong enough to hold her son on her lap ; ;
Soon he was ready to go into a three-dimensional figure in clay .
The true surge had to be inside the marble itself .
10 .
The arrangement with Argiento was working well , except that sometimes Michelangelo could not figure who was master and who apprentice .
`` Argiento , this is senseless '' , he complained , not liking to work on the wet floors , particularly in cold weather .
`` No '' , said Argiento stolidly .
`` And God help anyone who tries to unteach you '' ! !
`` Today I go see the horses '' .
It took a piece of bad luck to show Michelangelo that the boy was devoted to him .
By the second day Michelangelo began to worry ; ;
The surgeon came back at dusk , cut the vein of a second pigeon , again washed out the eye .
Beth was very still and her breath came in small jerking gasps .
When Juanita awoke , Kate was still rocking the dead child , still crooning in disbelief , `` No , no , oh , no ! !
They put Kate to bed and wired Jonathan and sent for the young Presbyterian minister .
Few of the neighbors came , but Mrs. Tussle came , called by tragedy .
They held the funeral the next morning from the crossroads church and buried the little box in the quiet family plot .
Jonathan's letter came , as she knew it would , and he had accepted their child's death as another judgment from God against both Kate and himself .
Juanita and Mrs. Tussle kept Kate in bed a week until her milk dried .
Juanita drooped about the place , wearing a haunted , brooding look , which Kate attributed to the baby's death , until the day a letter came for her addressed to `` Miss Juanita Fitzroy '' , bearing a Grafton postmark .
Uncle Randolph and Joel had replanted the bottom lands with difficulty , for more of the slaves , including Annie , had sneaked off when the soldiers broke camp .
Uncle Randolph had been riding out every evening on some secret business of his own .
`` You're gonna get caught '' , she heard Joel say to Uncle Randolph by the pump one morning .
`` Not this old fox '' , chuckled Uncle Randolph .
`` Whiskey still , my foot '' , said Joel .
`` Hush '' , said Uncle Randolph , smiling , `` or I'll give you another black eye '' .
Kate had no idea what they were talking of , although she had seen the blue lights and strange fires burning and winking on the ridges at night , had heard horsemen on the River Road and hill trails through the nights till dawn .
Kate drew more and more on her affection for Joel through the hot days of summer work .
She tried to find some way to draw him out , to help him .
No one went much to the crossroads now except Uncle Randolph .
The peddler came bawling his wares and told them of the convention in Wheeling , Which had formed a new state government by declaring the government at Richmond in the east illegal because they were traitors .
`` Cleaned all them Rebs out'n the hills , they did ! !
After he had gone , Kate asked Uncle Randolph proudly , `` Would you take their oath '' ? ?
And the old man had given a sly and wicked laugh and said , `` Hell , yes ! !
Her mother wrote Kate of her grief at the death of Kate's baby and at Jonathan's decision to go with the South `` And , dear Kate '' , she wrote , `` poor Dr. Breckenridge's son Robert is now organizing a militia company to go South , to his good father's sorrow .
Rumor of a big battle spread like a grassfire up the valley .
`` All dey know down dere is it were at Manassas Junction and it were a big fight '' , the old man told them .
In the next few days they had cause to rejoice .
The week after Manassas the sound of horses in the yard brought Kate up in shock from an afternoon's rest when she saw the Federal soldiers from her upstairs window .
At the landing she saw Juanita , her face flushed pink with excitement , run down the hall from the kitchen to the front door .
`` What brings you here again , Colonel Marsh '' ? ?
`` I stopped to say goodbye , Mrs. Lattimer , and to tell you how sorry I was to hear about your baby .
`` It was a terrible loss to me '' , said Kate quietly , feeling the pain twist again at the mention , knowing now that Juanita must have written to him at Grafton .
`` As you know , General McClellan has been occupying Beverly .
`` When are you to leave '' ? ?
`` Tomorrow .
`` Stay here in the parlor where it's cool '' , she said , trying to be calm .
Kate went back and reminded the kitchen women of the supper preparations .
`` He wants me to go with him tomorrow '' , she told Kate .
`` What do you want to do '' ? ?
`` I could go with him .
`` No , the decision is yours .
The red glow from the cove had died out of the sky .
In the ballroom below , the dark had given way to moonlight coming in through the bank of French windows .
`` Well , I'm here at last '' , she said , addressing the old portraits on the walls .
She came to the ballroom and stood on the two carpeted steps that led down to it .
She stood there , a large old woman , smiling at the things she would say to him in the morning , this big foolish baby of a son .
Martha picked up the hem of her gown and with eyes closed she slowly began to dance a stately minuet around the ballroom .
David Cortlandt was tired beyond almost the limits of his flesh .
The road leading south along the river was shaded with old trees , and in the moonlight the silvery landscape was like a setting for trolls and wood gods rather than the Hudson River Valley of his boyhood memories .
Strange how everything here fitted back into his life , even if he had been away so long .
Ahead there was a stirring of sudden movement at a crossroads .
The horse shied at the dreadful thing and flared its nostrils .
Chapter 10
On the east side of the island of Manhattan the indifferent hawk knew the East River that connected New York Bay with Long Island Sound .
The morning hawk , hungry for any eatable , killable , digestible item , kept his eyes on the ring of anchored ships that lay off the shores in the bay , sheltered by the Jersey inlets .
On shore `` the freed slaves to despotism '' -- the town dwellers -- watched the ships and waited .
The fish hawk flew on and was lost from sight .
David Cortlandt , having slept away a day and a night , came awake in a plank farmhouse on the Harlem River near Spuyten Duyvil .
The wraith-like events of the last few days flooded David's mind and he rubbed his unshaved chin and felt again the ache in his kidneys caused by his saddle odyssey from Boston .
From the saddlebags , hung on a Hitchcock chair , David took out a good English razor , a present from John Hunter .
Here he was , suddenly caught up in the delirium of a war , in the spite and calumny of Whigs and Tories .
Time plays an essential part in our mortality , and suddenly for no reason he could imagine ( or admit ) the image of Peg laughing filled his mind -- so desirable , so lusty , so full of nuances of pleasure and joy .
David finished shaving , washed his face clean of lather , and combed and retied his hair .
It is so easy to falsify sentiment .
Burly leathered men and wrinkled women in drab black rags carried on in a primitive way , almost unchanged from feudal times .
Andrei remembered a Bathyran meeting long ago .
Had he found the meaning too late ? ?
He had sat beside Alexander Brandel at the rostrum of a congress of Zionists .
`` I do not care if your beliefs take you along a path of religion or a path of labor or a path of activism .
Before he went into battle Andrei had told Alex , `` I only want to be a Pole .
And now Andrei sat on a train on the way to Lublin and wondered if he was not being punished for his lack of belief .
Once there had been big glittering rooms where Ulanys bowed and kissed the ladies' hands as they flirted from behind their fans .
Warsaw ! !
`` Miss Rak .
Day by day , week by week , month by month , the betrayal gnawed at Andrei's heart .
The terrible vision of the ghetto streets flooded his mind .
By late afternoon the train inched into the marshaling yards in the railhead at Lublin , which was filled with lines of cars poised to pour the tools of war to the Russian front .
At a siding , another train which was a familiar sight these days .
He walked toward the center of the city to keep his rendezvous with Styka .
From the moment of the occupation Lublin became a focal point .
Globocnik built the Death's-Head Corps .
A bevy of interlacing lagers , work camps , concentration camps erupted in the area .
The Death's-Head Corps took in Ukrainian and Baltic Auxiliaries , and the Einsatzkommandos waded knee-deep in blood and turned into drunken , dope-ridden maniacs .
In the spring of 1942 Operation Reinhard began in Lublin .
What was happening in Majdanek ? ?
Andrei stopped at Litowski Place and looked around quickly at the boundary of civil buildings .
`` Captain Androfski '' ! !
Andrei glanced up over the top of the paper and looked into the mustached , homely face of Sergeant Styka .
`` It's good to see you again , Styka '' .
Styka studied his captain .
`` Remember to call me Jan '' , Andrei said .
Styka nodded and sniffed and blew his nose vociferously .
`` I'm lucky that you were still living in Lublin '' .
Styka grumbled about fate .
`` I understand '' .
Styka blew his nose again .
`` Were you able to make the arrangements '' ? ?
`` There is a man named Grabski who is the foreman in charge of the bricklayers at Majdanek .
`` His answer '' ? ?
`` Ten thousand zlotys '' .
`` Can he be trusted '' ? ?
`` He is aware he will not live for twenty-four hours if he betrays you '' .
`` Good man , Styka '' .
`` Captain Jan must you go inside Majdanek ? ?
`` Not everyone , Styka '' .
`` What good will it really do '' ? ?
`` I don't know .
`` Do you really believe that , Jan '' ? ?
`` I have to believe it '' .
Styka shook his head slowly .
Andrei smiled .
`` Since the war I have seen the way the Germans have behaved and I think , Holy Mother , we have behaved like this for hundreds of years .
`` How can you tell an insane man to reason or a blind man to see '' ? ?
`` But we are neither blind nor insane .
`` I have sat many hours with this , Styka .
`` And do you really think that the world outside Poland will care any more than we do '' ? ?
The question frightened Andrei .
`` Please don't go inside Majdanek '' .
`` I'm still a soldier in a very small way , Styka '' .
It was an answer that Styka understood .
Grabski's shanty was beyond the bridge over the River Bystrzyca near the rail center .
`` Well '' ? ?
Grabski looked at the pair of them .
Grabski slurped his way to the bottom of the soup bowl .
`` Orders from the Home Army '' .
`` Why ? ?
Andrei shrugged .
`` Well -- what about the money '' ? ?
Andrei peeled off five one-thousand-zloty notes .
`` You get the rest when I'm safely out of Majdanek '' .
`` I ain't taking no goddamned chances for no Jew business '' .
Andrei and Styka were silent .
She was getting real dramatic .
`` Nothing's free in the whole goddam world '' , was all I could think of to say .
`` I am '' , she said .
I'd forgotten all about Thelma and the Kentucky Derby and how it was Thelma's fifty dollars I was spending .
That evening turned out to be hell like all the others .
I did have the decency to call up Thelma and tell her I'd met old friends and would be home late .
`` I could scratch her eyes out '' , Eileen cried and stamped her foot when I came back from the phone booth .
She got so drunk I had to take her home .
There was a man's jacket on the chair and a straw hat on the table .
Suddenly she was very mysterious and dramatic .
`` Well I object .
`` That really would be funny '' .
She began to laugh .
Waking up was horrible .
We both had hangovers .
I stiffened .
We didn't have time to speak before Eileen's voice was screeching at us from the bed .
Eileen was a psychologist all right .
I couldn't face Thelma after that night .
Afterwards I learned that Eileen had called Thelma on the telephone and made a big scene about Thelma trying to take her husband away .
And there I was shacked up with Eileen in that filthy fourth floor attic on Hudson Street .
What I did know was that Precious was always around .
Precious had me worried .
I never could find out what his business was .
Poor devil he can't have been too happy either .
When I was in liquor I rode him pretty hard I guess .
Getting drunk every night was the only way I could handle the situation .
Pat O'Dwyer looked like a heavier Jim .
Pat took Eileen and me out to dinner at a swell steak house and told us with tears in his eyes how happy he was we had come together again .
All evening Eileen had been as demure as a little girl getting ready for her first communion .
My first thought was how had it happened so soon , but I counted back on my fingers and sure enough we'd been living together six weeks .
Before he left town Pat saw to it that I was fixed up with a job .
The portwatchers were retired longshoremen and small time seafarers off towboats and barges who acted as watchmen on the wharves .
Sposato needed a front , some labor stiff with a clean record to act as business agent of the Redhook local .
Sposato couldn't wait to get me hired .
There was one fact which Rector could not overlook , one truth which he could not deny .
Even Rector himself was prey to this spirit of competition and he knew it , not for a more exalted office in the hierarchy of the church -- his ambitions for the bishopry had died very early in his career -- but for the one clear victory he had talked about to the colonel .
He sighed .
Hino was elated at the prospect .
It was a ridiculous situation and Rector knew it , for Hino , frankly partisan , openly gregarious , would make a poor espionage agent .
Rector had never been able to find out much about Hino's past .
Rector had no doubt that Hino would come back from the village bursting with information , ready to impart it with his customary gusto , liberally embellished with his active imagnation .
`` Oh '' ? ?
`` This afternoon '' , the secretary said .
`` All right '' , Rector said .
He was about to hang up the phone , but a note of hesitancy in the secretary's voice left the conversation open .
Rector laughed despite himself .
`` Arigato gosaimasu '' .
Rector had no idea why Kayabashi wanted to visit the mission .
When he had given the call a few moments thought , he went into the kitchen to ask Mrs. Yamata to prepare tea and sushi for the visitors , using the formal English china and the silver tea service which had been donated to the mission , then he went outside to inspect the grounds .
`` How many pamphlets do we have in stock '' ? ?
`` I should say about a hundred thousand '' , Fletcher said .
`` I would like to enact a little tableau this afternoon '' , Rector said , He explained about the visit and the effect he wished to create , the picture of a very busy mission .
Rector's next stop was at the schoolroom , where Mavis was monitoring a test .
She looked back toward the schoolroom .
`` I would like them to appear very busy today , not busy exactly , but joyous , exuberant , full of life .
Mavis smiled .
As Rector was walking back toward the residential hall , Johnson came out of the basement and bounded up to him .
`` You are about to become a first-class surveyor '' , Rector said .
Rector was warming to his over-all strategy by the time he got back to the residential hall .
He found Elizabeth in the parlor and asked her to make sure everything was in order in the residential hall , and then to take charge of the office while the party was here .
At two thirty he sent Fujimoto to the top of the wall at the northeast corner of the mission to keep an eye on the ridge road and give a signal when he first glimpsed the approach of Kayabashi's party .
She concluded by asking him to name another hour should this one be inconvenient .
The fish took the bait .
But when she called he had thought better of the matter and decided not to involve himself in a new entanglement .
At last he consented to meet her , and following that brief interview Claire wrote him a yet more remarkable proposal :
Have you any objection to the following plan ? ?
She concluded by asking for a brief interview -- `` to settle with you where '' -- and she threw in a tribute to his `` gentle manners '' and `` the wild originality of your countenance '' .
She opened his reply with trembling fingers he agreed ! !
At their meeting he told her not to bother about `` where '' -- he would attend to that .
`` Your voice is delightful '' , he approved with a warm smile .
And so they went , he choosing of all places an inn near Medmenham Abbey , scene a generation ago of the obscene orgies of the Hellfire Club .
The jaded amorist conjured up pictures of the blasphemous rites with relish .
They passed close by the turn to Bishopsgate .
How was she to behave , Claire wondered .
At the inn , which was situated close to a broad weir , Byron was greeted by the landlord with obsequious deference and addressed as `` milord '' .
The fire in the sitting room was lighted .
`` What about the bedroom '' ? ?
`` We found some owls had built a nest in the chimney , milord , but I promise you you'll never have trouble of that sort again '' .
So , not only had he been here before , but it seemed he might well come again .
A cold supper was ordered and a bottle of port .
As they waited for supper they sat by the fire , glasses in hand , while Byron philosophized as much for his own entertainment as hers .
`` Sex is overpriced '' , he said .
`` The gods seemed to think sex pretty important '' , she rebutted .
Byron laughed .
`` Tell me about Minerva , how she behaved , what she did to please you '' .
`` I'll tell you nothing .
For a moment she thought of answering with the truth but she knew there were men who shied away from virginity , who demanded some degree of education in body as well as mind .
`` Very well '' , she said , `` I'll not catechize you .
She was striking the right note .
The light supper over , Claire went to him and , slipping an arm about his shoulder , sat on his knee .
`` Byron '' ! !
His hand went to her shoulder and pushed aside the knotted scarf that surmounted the striped poplin gown ; ;
But , kindled by his kiss , his caressing hand , her desire was aflame .
He rose and went to the bedroom .
When Claire returned to Bishopsgate she longed to tell them she had become Byron's mistress .
`` Although it is not the best of which he is capable '' , said Shelley as he closed the book , `` it is still poetry of a high order '' .
`` If he would only leave the East '' , said Mary .
`` The hero of his next poem is Napoleon Bonaparte '' , said Claire , with slightly overdone carelessness .
`` How do you know that '' ? ?
`` I was told it on good authority '' , Claire answered darkly .
Chapter 9
`` Fanny and Mrs. Godwin will probably be glad to hear that Mary has safely recovered from a very favorable confinement , and that her child is well '' .
At the same time another child -- this one of Shelley's brain -- was given to the world : Alastor , a poem of pervading beauty in which the reader may gaze into the still depths of a fine mind's musings .
Only Mary's praise sustained him in his disappointment .
`` You have made the labor worth while '' , he said to her , smiling .
`` A public of one '' , Mary echoed reprovingly .
`` Poor Mr. Thynne , he always has to be trotted out for my encouragement '' .
`` There are other Mr. Thynnes .
Mary's supercritical attitude toward Byron had nothing to do with his moral disrepute .
The lordly poet was at low-water mark .
But the liaison successfully started in the last days of autumn was now languishing .
Beckworth handed the pass to the colonel .
-- Beckworth .
-- Sir ? ?
-- Fetch me the copies of everything B and C companies have requisitioned in the last six months .
-- The last six months , sir ? ?
-- You heard me .
-- Yes , sir .
Beckworth left the tent .
The bombproof was a low-ceilinged structure of heavy timbers covered with earth .
An officer with a squad of men had been waiting on the bank .
-- We won't be too long .
The soldier answered in a curious , muffled voice , his lips barely moving .
-- Yes , sir .
He had acknowledged the man .
He grew annoyed and at the same time surprised at that emotion .
The figure in the corner belched loudly , a deep , liquid eruption .
The soldier's voice was muffled again , stricken with chagrin .
-- 'scuse me , sir .
-- Let's get out of here .
Watson ran up the ladder and stood for a second sucking in the cool air that smelled of mud and river weeds .
Three Union guards appeared , carrying their rifles at ready .
The guards came to life with astonishing menace .
-- Let me help him , for the love of God ! !
The guards lowered their rifles and their rifles and peered at Watson with sullen , puzzled faces .
-- Henry said that he'd take my arm and get me right there .
-- no .
-- It don't matter .
How far could it be , Watson thought bleakly , how far can a blind man crawl ? ?
-- Not far .
-- You talk deep .
-- yes .
-- Why , course I can .
Watson stumbled down the bank .
-- Oh , Christ .
-- hush .
Watson supported the man to the edge of the bank and passed the frail figure over the bow of the nearest skiff .
-- Henry ? ?
-- Make him lie down ! !
Watson snatched a deep breath .
-- Goddamn you ! !
Intelligence jabbed at him accusingly .
John's type of man allowed this sort of thing to happen .
Watson spat on the ground .
I would not want to be one of those writers who begin each morning by exclaiming , `` O Gogol , O Chekhov , O Thackeray and Dickens , what would you have made of a bomb shelter ornamented with four plaster-of-Paris ducks , a birdbath , and three composition gnomes with long beards and red mobcaps '' ? ?
It all began on an autumn afternoon -- and who , after all these centuries , can describe the fineness of an autumn day ? ?
Mrs. Pastern undertook the work of going from house to house with the thoughtless resignation of an honest and traditional laborer .
`` But I don't know the Flannagans '' , Charlie Pastern said .
`` Nobody does , but they gave me ten last year '' .
He was tired , he had his business worries , and the sight of his wife arranging pork chops in the broiler only seemed like an extension of a boring day .
`` Infectious hepatitis '' , he shouted heartily .
She took a good look at herself in the mirror before she turned and , walking with very small steps , started toward the door .
A fire had just been lighted , he saw , and things had been set out for drinks , and , like any stray , his response to these comforts was instantaneous .
`` What train does Mr. Flannagan come out on '' ? ?
`` Mr. Flannagan is away '' , she said .
`` I'll have a drink , then , if you'll have one with me '' .
`` If you will promise to make it weak '' .
`` Sit down '' , he said , `` and enjoy your drink and look for your checkbook later .
All in all , they had six drinks .
The thought of this lonely woman sitting at her window touched him , although he was even more touched by her plumpness .
`` I've never done this before '' , she said later , when he was arranging himself to leave .
`` Where have you been '' ? ?
`` I had a drink with the Flannagans '' .
`` She told me he was in Germany '' .
`` He came home unexpectedly '' .
Charlie ate some supper in the kitchen and went into the TV room to hear the news .
It was not as though she noted clearly that her nephews had not been to see her for ten years , not since their last journey eastward to witness their Uncle Izaak being lowered into the rocky soil ; ;
She grasped the chair arms and brought her thin body upright , like a bird alert for flight .
Once her trembling hand , with the pen grasped tight in it , was pressed against the paper the words came sharply , smoothly , as authoritatively as they would dropping from her own lips .
She signed the letters quickly , stamped them , and placed them on the hall table for Raphael to mail in town .
`` My nephews will be coming down '' , she said that evening as Angelina brought her dinner into the dining room , the whole meal on a vast linen-covered tray .
Angelina placed the tray on the table and with a flick of dark wrist drew off the cloth .
`` Um '' , said the old lady , and brought her eyes down to the tray .
Angelina stepped back , her eyes roaming the tray for omissions .
`` Yes '' , she said , `` I remember that they came here every summer .
Jessica Packard lifted her head and followed the retreating figure , her eyes resting nearly closed on the unself-conscious rise and fall of the rounded hips .
There's no greater catastrophe in the universe , she reflected dourly , impaling tender green beans on the silver fork , than the dwindling away of a family .
She was the last living of the older generation .
She ate .
She thought again of her children , those two who had died young , before the later science which might have saved them could attach even a label to their separate malignancies .
The brothers drove down together in Mark's small red sports car , Mark at the wheel .
`` I suppose it has to do with the property '' , Mark had said over the telephone when they had discussed their receipt of the letters .
Now Abel turned his head to look at his brother .
The vacation traffic was becoming heavier as they approached the sea .
`` I imagine the old girl hasn't missed us much '' , Mark added , his eyes on the road .
He could tell they were approaching the sea .
Mark's thoughts must have been keeping silent pace beside his own , climbing the same crags in dirty white sneakers , clambering out on top of the headland and coming upon the sudden glinting water at the same instant .
`` The Starbird , '' Abel said .
They came unexpectedly upon the sea .
His eyes were old and they never saw well , but heated with whisky they'd glare at my noise , growing red and raising up his rage .
He was all shoveled up like I thought he'd be .
I was leaning too far over .
`` Get the hell out of here '' .
I didn't say anything , trying to get my throat clear , but I watched him .
`` Get the hell out of here '' .
`` Big Hans sent me .
`` A fat hell on Big Hans .
`` He found the Pedersen kid by the crib '' .
`` Get the hell out '' .
Pa pulled at the covers .
`` The kid's froze good .
`` Pedersen '' ? ?
`` No , Pa .
`` Nothing to steal from the crib '' .
`` Not stealing , Pa .
Pa laughed .
`` I ain't hid nothing in the crib '' .
`` You don't understand , Pa .
`` I goddamn well understand '' .
Pa had his head up , glaring , his teeth gnawing at the place where he'd grown a mustache once .
`` I goddamn well understand .
He was shouting and breathing hard and closing his fist on the pillow .
`` Big Hans made me come .
`` A fat hell on Big Hans .
He was about to get up so I got out , slamming the door .
Hans had laid steaming towels over the kid's chest and stomach .
`` Ain't he going to wake up '' ? ?
`` What about your pa '' ? ?
`` He was awake when I left '' .
`` What'd he say ? ?
`` He said a fat hell on Big Hans '' .
`` Don't be smart .
`` Yeah '' .
`` Well '' ? ?
`` He said a fat hell on Big Hans '' .
`` Don't be smart .
`` Go back to sleep most likely '' .
`` You'd best get that whisky '' .
`` You go .
`` Listen to me , Jorge , I've had enough to your sassing .
`` Pa don't care about the kid '' .
`` Jorge '' .
`` Well he don't .
`` I'll get the spirits '' , Ma said .
I'd wound Big Hans up tight .
`` No you won't '' , Big Hans said .
`` Yes , Hans , if they're needed '' , Ma said .
Hans shook his head but neither of us tried to stop her .
`` I'll get more snow '' , I said .
Oh , he was being queer and careful , pawing about in the drawer and holding the bottle like a snake at the length of his arm .
Hans cut the foil off finally and unscrewed the cap .
Hans poured some in a tumbler .
`` You going to put more towels on him '' ? ?
`` No '' .
`` Why not ? ?
`` Not where he's froze good .
Colors on the towels had run .
Ma poked her toe in the kid's clothes .
`` What are we going to do with these '' ? ?
Big Hans began pouring whisky in the kid's mouth but his mouth filled without any getting down his throat and in a second it was dripping from his chin .
`` Here , help me prop him up .
I didn't want to touch him and I hoped Ma would do it but she kept looking at the kid's clothes piled on the floor and the pool of water by them and didn't make any move to .
`` Come on , Jorge '' .
`` All right '' .
`` Lift , don't shove lift '' .
`` O.K. , I'm lifting '' .
I took him by the shoulders .
`` Hold his head up .
`` His mouth is open '' .
`` His throat's shut .
`` He'll choke anyway '' .
`` Hold his head up '' .
`` I can't '' .
`` Don't hold him like that .
`` Well Jesus '' .
He was cold all right .
`` Now he'll choke for sure '' .
`` Shut up .
He was cold all right , and wet .
He was in his mid-fifties at this time , long past the establishment of his name and the wish to be lionized yet once again , and it was almost a decade since he had sworn off lecturing .
He left his home the day after New Year's wearing a mackinaw and sheepskin mittens and without a hat .
He saw the surprise in her face , and laughed as though it were the funniest expression he had ever seen .
`` Now drive carefully , for God's sake '' ! !
She enjoyed great parties when she would sit up talking and dancing and drinking all night , but it always seemed to her that being alone , especially alone in her house , was the realest part of life .
But they all said , `` No , your time will come .
There was no room for company in the tiny Weaning House ( where the Albright boys always took their brides , till they could get a house and a farm of their own ) .
So Linda Kay gave up asking , and accepted her reprieve .
Bobby Joe was gone all day now , not coming in for dinner and sometimes not for supper .
Thus a new pattern of days began to develop , for Granny Albright did not die .
So the pattern was established .
The women and children stayed at the Albrights' .
Off and on , all day , someone would be wiping at the powdery gray dust that settled over everything .
The dust clogged their throats , and the heat parched them , so that the women were always making ice water .
One afternoon , as the women sat clucking softly , a new carload of people pulled up at the gate .
There was much embracing , much exclaiming .
All the women got up and offered their chairs , and when they were all seated again , the guests made their inquiries and their explanations .
`` We were on our vacation in Canada '' , Howard explained , in a muffled voice that must have been used to booming , `` and the news didn't catch up with us till we were nearly home .
There was the suggestion of ice water , and -- in spite of the protest `` We're not really thirsty '' -- Linda Kay , to escape the stuffy air and the smothering soft voices , hurried to the kitchen .
She filled a big pitcher and set it , with glasses , on a tray .
Howard ( the thick middle-aged man ) was looking at her .
`` And who is this '' ? ?
`` Oh that's Linda Kay '' , Mama Albright said fondly .
`` Let's see '' , Cousin Ada said .
`` Oh yes '' , Mama laughed .
This joke was not funny to Linda Kay , and she blushed , as she always did ; ;
`` Who is Howard , anyway '' ? ?
`` Oh he's a second cousin or something .
`` How old is he '' ? ?
`` Gosh , I don't know .
He was talking about antelope again when they woke up .
`` Did he ever visit here when he was a kid '' ? ?
`` Who '' ? ?
`` Howard '' .
`` Hell , I don't know .
Bobby Joe took a gun from behind the door , and with a quick `` Bye now '' was gone for the day .
Almost immediately Howard and his daughter Debora drove up in the Cadillac .
`` We're going after ice '' , Howard said , `` and thought maybe you'd go along and keep us company '' .
There was really no reason to refuse , and Linda Kay had never ridden in a Cadillac .
Driving along the caliche-topped road to town , Howard talked .
Howard sighed .
She was going to tell Bobby Joe about how mistaken she had been , but he brought one of the cousins home for supper , and all they did was talk about antelope .
Bobby Joe was trying to get Linda Kay to say she would cook one if he brought it home .
`` Cook a whole antelope '' ? ?
`` Oh , you could .
Linda Kay told him he couldn't do anything like that with his Grandma dying , and he said well they had to eat , didn't they , they weren't all dying .
Every night they all went to Mama and Papa Albright's , and sat on the open front porch , where they could get the breeze .
That night the older men got to talking about going possum-hunting on a moonlight night .
After they had left , some of the people moved around , to find more comfortable places to sit .
`` You'll be a darn sight more comfortable there , Howard '' , Ernest said , laughing , and they all laughed .
Linda Kay felt that she was not exactly more comfortable .
Still she was not sorry he sat by her , but in fact was flattered .
`` But tell me , doctor , where do you plan to conduct the hatching '' ? ?
`` That will have to be in the hotel '' , the doctor retorted , confirming Alex's anticipations .
The doctor paid the bill and they repaired to the hotel , room number nine , to initiate Alex further into these undertakings .
The doctor opened the smallest of his cases , an unimposing straw bag , and exposed the contents for Alex's inspection .
`` This is my hen ledger '' , he informed him in an absorbed way .
The ledger was full of most precise information : date of laying , length of incubation period , number of chick reaching the first week , second week , fifth week , weight of hen , size of rooster's wattles and so on , all scrawled out in a hand that looked more Chinese than English , the most jagged and sprawling Alex had ever seen .
A knocking at Alex's door roused him at six o'clock the following morning .
The clocks struck seven-thirty as they approached the hotel entrance ; ;
`` Bonjour , messieurs , vous etes matinals '' , she greeted them pleasantly .
`` Vous voulez vos petits dejeuners tout de suite alors '' ? ?
`` Comment '' ? ?
When Alex entered his room , the doctor was already preparing a nest in the straw case , six eggs ready for the hen's attentions .
`` Who was that , young feller '' ? ?
`` That was the fille de chambre , the one you thought couldn't get the eggs out .
The doctor's mind was working at a great speed ; ;
`` Have you got our keys handy '' ? ?
`` Right in my pocket '' .
`` All right .
Alex returned to the hotel , rather weary and with no new prospects of a role , in the late afternoon , but found the doctor in an ebullient mood .
`` Chickens have short memories '' , the doctor remarked , `` that's why they are better company than most people I know '' , and he went on to break some important news to Alex .
Going downstairs with the tray , Winston wished he could have given in to Miss Ada , but he knew better than to do what she said when she had that little-girl look .
In the kitchen , Leona , his little young wife , was reading the morning paper .
`` Here '' , Winston said gently , `` what's these dishes doing not washed '' ? ?
`` Leave me alone '' , Leona said .
`` This is moving day '' , Winston reminded her , `` and I bet you left things every which way upstairs , your clothes all over the floor and the bed not made .
She twitched her leg away .
Winston stacked Miss Ada's thin pink dishes in the sink .
Sighing , Leona dropped the paper and stood up .
Winston watched her fumbling to untie her apron .
She turned and put her arms around his neck .
`` Now listen to that '' .
`` At least there is room here '' , she said .
`` I told you what Miss Ada's doctor said '' .
`` I don't mean Miss Ada ! !
In spite of the hundred things he had on his mind , Winston went and put his arm around her waist .
`` Four years '' ! !
`` How many times have I told you '' -- he began , and was almost glad when she cut him off -- `` Too many times '' ! !
Too many times was the truth of it , Winston thought .
`` How you going to work with a child hanging on you '' ? ?
He sat for a while with his hands on his knees , watching the bend of her back as she gathered up her things -- a comb , a bottle of aspirin -- to take upstairs and pack .
`` Winston '' ! !
It was Mr. Jack , bellowing out in the hall .
There were a few blades of lint on the shoulder .
Winston apologized and quickly set the hat right .
`` Good-by , Winston '' , Mr. Jack said , giving a final set to his hat .
After Mr. Jack drove away , Winston went on looking out the window .
Ten years ago , he had come to the house to be interviewed .
Since then , the flowers she had planted had spread all over the hill .
Sighing , he hurried to the living room .
In the living room , Miss Ada was standing by the window with a sheaf of lists in her hand .
`` Winston '' , she said , `` get the basket for the breakables '' .
Winston had the big straw basket ready in the hall .
Frowning , Miss Ada studied the list .
When they came to Mr. Jack's photograph , twenty by twelve inches in a curly silver frame , Miss Ada said , `` By rights I ought to leave that , seeing he won't take my clotheshorse '' .
`` At least you could leave it for the movers '' , Miss Ada said .
Winston folded the tissue paper carefully .
`` Well , that's over now .
Winston laid it in the basket .
`` Really , Winston .
Winston was relieved ; ;
`` She's been talking about a picture '' , Winston had told him .
`` Picture ! !
On Christmas night , they had had a disagreement about it .
`` How do you like it '' ? ?
Mr. Jack had said , `` You look about fifteen years old '' .
`` Is that a compliment '' ? ?
`` I don't know '' .
`` Lovie , you make me feel naked '' .
`` You look like that picture I have at the office '' , Mr. Jack had started .
`` Darling , I love that photograph .
`` I guess it's children make a woman old .
`` I'll give you a medical certificate , framed , if you like '' , Miss Ada had said .
`` No .
After that they had sat for five minutes without saying a word .
Was it love ? ?
Nothing in all the preceding years had had the power to bring me closer to a knowledge of profound sorrow than the breakup of camp , the packing away of my camp uniforms , the severing of ties with the six or ten people I had grown most to love in the world .
These letters became the center of my existence .
In my letters I took on a personality that differed from the self I knew in real life .
The weeks went by , and the longer our separation grew , the more unbounded and almost unbearable my fantasies became .
As it turned out , Jessica took matters into her own hands .
It was at that party that , finally overcoming my timidity , inspired by tales only half-understood and overheard among older boys , I asked Jessie to spend New Year's Eve with me .
Among my school and neighborhood friends , during the next months , I bragged and swaggered and pompously described my impending date .
When in one letter Jessica informed me that her father did not like the idea of her going out alone on New Year's Eve , I knew for a moment an immense relief ; ;
Her optimism gave me heart .
At five o'clock that night it was already dark , and behind my closed door I was dressing as carefully as a groom .
Times Square , when I ascended to it with my fellow subway travellers ( all dressed as if for a huge wedding in a family of which we were all distant members ) , was nearly impassable , the sidewalks swarming with celebrants , with bundled up sailors and soldiers already hugging their girls and their rationed bottles of whiskey .
It was a quarter of seven when the crowd washed me up among the other gallants who had established the Astor steps as the beach-head from which to launch their night of merrymaking .
But when I saw that it was already ten past seven , I began to wonder if something had gone wrong .
At 7:25 two hotel doormen came thumping down the steps , carrying a saw-horse to be set up as a barricade in front of the haberdashery store window next to the entranceway , and as I watched them in their gaudy red coats that nearly scraped the ground , their golden , fringed epaulets and spic , red-visored caps , I suddenly saw just over their shoulders Jessica gracefully making her way through the crowd .
There were thirty-eight patients on the bus the morning I left for Hanover , most of them disturbed and hallucinating .
I felt lonely and depressed as I stared out the bus window at Chicago's grim , dirty West Side .
I suddenly thought of Mary Jane Brennan , the way her pretty eyes could flash with anger , her quiet competence , the gentleness and sweetness that lay just beneath the surface of her defenses .
We had become good friends during my stay at Cook County Hospital .
`` I read those newspaper stories about you '' , she had said .
`` Why do you say that '' ? ?
Nonsense ! !
`` Would it make any difference to you if I were , Mary Jane '' ? ?
She met my eyes , suddenly angry .
`` You what , Mary Jane '' ? ?
`` You are young , intelligent , have a whole lifetime before you to make something worth while of yourself , but you mess it up with whiskey , indifference , self-destructive attitudes .
`` Oh , yes '' , I said , feeling annoyed , `` she was very pretty .
`` Why should I ? ?
`` Why didn't you '' ? ?
Her eyes flashed angrily .
`` Do you have a boy friend '' ? ?
`` That's none of your business '' , she said , then changed the subject .
`` My father and mother died when I was two years old '' , I said .
Something in my voice must have touched her deeply because her anger passed quickly , and she turned away to keep me from seeing her face .
`` I'm sorry '' , she said .
`` Tell me more about them '' .
Her eyes became bright as she talked about her father and mother , aunts and uncles , cousins .
`` Your dad sounds like a good father and a good policeman .
`` My father is a sergeant of detectives and has been attached to Homicide for five years .
`` What about you ? ?
`` If I thought you were serious about going back to school , that you'd learned something from your experiences here and at Hanover -- well , I might consider such an offer .
It suddenly seemed very important to me that Mary Jane Brennan should know the truth about me -- that I was not the confused , sick , irresponsible person she believed me to be .
`` There are things about me that I can't tell you now , Mary Jane '' , I said , `` but if you'll go out to dinner with me when I get out of Hanover , I'd like to tell you the whole story .
`` Yes , I'll get one overnight a month '' .
`` We'll go up to the Edgewater Beach Hotel for dinner '' , I said .
`` I like to dance '' , she said , then turned and walked away .
There hadn't been anything really personal in her interest in me .
Now , riding this hospital bus , feeling isolated and utterly alone , I knew that she was genuine and unique , quite unlike any girl I had known before .
It was a fantastic story .
As the bus turned into the main highway and headed toward Hanover I settled back in my seat and closed my eyes , thinking over the events of the past two weeks , trying to put the pieces in order .
Four
Such optimism was completely unjustified .
We were paid off Tuesday morning and given tickets back to New York .
I felt lonely and depressed as I packed my bags at the Croydon Hotel .
I closed the last bag and stood all three at the door for the bellboy to pick up , then went to the bathroom for a drink of water .
`` All right '' , I said .
`` I beg your pardon , sir '' ? ?
`` All right .
`` Good .
I smiled .
`` Yes , of course , Mr. Nelson '' .
I started to say something else appropriate , but the man had hung up .
I finally went downstairs to the bar off the main lobby where most of the cast were drowning their sorrows over the untimely passing of Ask Tony .
`` All right , you bastards '' , I said , `` the great actor is about to buy a drink '' .
I laid a tenspot on the bar and motioned to the bartender to serve a round .
`` You Mr. Nelson '' ? ?
`` That's right '' .
`` Mr. Wycoff's car is waiting for you at the east entrance '' .
I followed him out through the lobby to the street .
An ancient Rolls-Royce , as shiningly impressive as the day it came off the ship , was parked at the curb .
I was giving the parked cars the once-over .
`` Okay '' , I said to the attendant , `` I'll let you know if I close the deal on the office in this building '' .
I walked with him back to the entrance .
I was back in ten minutes .
He started to say something as I walked in and then suddenly grinned and said , `` Oh , yes .
`` That's right '' , I told him .
He consulted the parking ticket , then looked at a notation and said , `` You're in the third row back toward the rear .
`` Sure '' , I told him .
I went back to the agency car and got out an electric bug , one of the newest devices for electronic shadowing .
I put in new batteries so as to be certain I'd have plenty of power and on my way out walked over to the regular parking stalls and stood looking at them thoughtfully .
I waited until the parking attendant was busy with a customer , then slipped around the back of the car with license number JYM 114 , attached the electronic bug to the rear bumper and walked out .
The attendant waved me on .
One of the hardest chores a detective has is hanging around on a city street , trying to make himself inconspicuous , keeping an eye on the entrance of an office building and waiting .
For the first fifteen or twenty minutes it's possible to be more or less interested in window displays , then in people passing by .
I waited a solid two hours before my man came out of the office building .
I wasn't far behind him when he entered the parking lot and hurried over to his car .
The attendant recognized me once more and said , `` What did you do about that office '' ? ?
`` I haven't made up my mind yet '' , I said .
`` That curb parking is undependable and annoying , particularly when it rains '' , he said .
I kept trying to get him to take my money .
`` I'll have one of the boys get it '' , he said .
`` Make it as snappy as you can , will you '' ? ?
`` Oh , that's all right '' , he said .
I grinned at him , handed him a couple of dollars and said , `` By the time you get the parking charge figured up , there should be a cigar in it for you '' .
I hurried over to the agency heap , jumped in , started the motor and was just in time to see the car I wanted to shadow turn to the left .
I was held up a bit trying to make a left turn .
I turned on the electric bug , and the signal came in loud and clear .
I made time and picked him up within ten blocks .
After fifteen minutes of traffic driving he turned to the left .
I turned left too soon and got a signal showing that I was still behind him but he was to the right .
I found a parking place half a block away , sat in the car and waited .
My quarry was in the apartment house for two hours .
By this time it was dark .
I sat where I could watch the exit and realized I was hungry .
My man came out an hour later , drove to the beach , turned right and after half a mile went to the Swim and Tan Motel .
It was a fairly modern motel with quite a bit of electrical display in front .
I waited until my man was coming out of the office with the key to a cabin before I went in to register .
The card the man I was shadowing had filled out was still on the counter .
He had written out the license number of his car but had transposed the last two figures , an old dodge which is still good .
I used the alias of Robert C. Richards , gave the first three letters and the first and last figure of the license number on the agency heap , but a couple of phony numbers in between .
I could have written anything .
`` You mean you're all alone , Mr. Richards '' ? ?
`` That's right '' .
`` Your wife isn't going to join you -- later '' ? ?
`` I don't think so '' .
`` If you expect her to show up '' , she said , `` you'd better put ' and wife ' on there .
`` Any difference in the rate '' ? ?
`` Not to you '' , she said smiling .
`` Thank you '' , I told her .
I took another sidelong glance at the other registration card , then took the key to Unit 13 that she had given me and went down long enough to park the car .
The construction was reasonably solid ; ;
I put a small electric amplifier against the wall on the side I wanted to case .
Whoever his companion was going to be , she was going to join him later .
I was so hungry my stomach felt all lines of communication had been severed .
I had noticed a drive-in down the road a quarter of a mile .
I got in the car , drove down to the drive-in and ordered a couple of hamburgers with everything included , a cup of coffee and the fastest service possible .
The place wasn't particularly busy at that time of night , and the girl who was waiting on me , who was clothed in the tightest-fitting pair of slacks I had ever seen on a woman and a sweater that showed everything there was -- and there was lots of it -- wanted to be sociable .
`` You really in a hurry , Handsome '' ? ?
`` I'm in a hurry , Beautiful '' .
`` It's early in the evening to be in a hurry .
She gave a little pout and said , `` I don't get off work until eleven o'clock .
`` I'll be here at ten-fifty-five '' , I said .
`` Oh , you ! !
I said `` Darn it , that's the automatic signal that shows when the ignition key is on .
She went in to get the hamburgers , and I switched on the device again and kept the signal from Dowling's car coming in steady and clear until I saw her starting back with the hamburgers .
She wanted to hang around while I was eating .
`` No '' , I said .
`` Diets can be terrible '' , the girl said .
`` Not a bit '' , I said , `` but she's keeping her figure in hand '' .
She looked at me provocatively .
I turned on the device again , half fearful that I might find silence , but the buzzes came in loud and clear .
When I switched on the lights for her to come and get the check , I had the exact change plus a dollar tip .
The fat man said , `` All we gotta do is go around the corner '' .
The gun moved .
`` -- second building on the right '' .
`` -- it says police right on the door '' .
`` -- so even if we was as dumb as you take us for , we could still find it '' .
Roberta and Dave began to back toward the door .
`` It says water works , but there is a policeman on duty , too '' .
`` A night policeman just like in the States .
`` Canada doesn't have much of this here juvenile delinquency problem , but we keep a night policeman all the same on account of the crazy tourists '' .
At the door , Dave paused to feel for the latch .
Dave had the latch under his thumb now and he removed his arm from his wife in order to pull the door open .
Slowly she turned to face the men again .
As she reached Dave and felt his arm go around her , felt him pull her to the safety of his person , she knew with the certainty of despair that something bad had happened to Lauren .
The two men watched as Dave closed the door behind them , watched them cross the sidewalk to their car .
The thin man moved swiftly to the phone and dialed a number .
He turned from the phone and strode to the front of the restaurant .
He said , `` Grosse ? ?
`` I ain't kidding you , Vince .
`` Howda I know '' ? ?
`` Remember how she looked when Barney held the door for her ? ?
Vince swore .
Grosse muttered , his head down , one hand playing with the zipper on his jacket .
With a curse , Vince seized the thing nearest , a glass sugar container with a spouted metal top , and threw it against the wall opposite .
Not really startled , but careful to appear so , Grosse sucked noisily on his pipe .
Grosse quietly got a broom and started to sweep up the sugar .
The fat man didn't answer .
He spoke soothingly .
`` How do you know , stupid ? ?
`` I know '' .
`` -- one word of this gets to Guardino '' --
`` Who's telling Guardino '' ? ?
Vince swore again .
The fat man winced .
The thin man stopped his pacing long enough to glance at the clock .
Grosse spread his hands .
`` What the hell do I care what you do with her all day ? ?
Grosse swore now .
Vince shouted finally , `` Get her over to Rose's and I'll come by and see that she stays put '' .
Grosse rubbed the bridge of his nose where it was swollen .
`` What is it '' ? ?
`` Are you a poor dumb Canadian or a smart aleck from the States '' ? ?
Vince lifted his hand as if to strike , but his thin lips spread in a smile .
`` In a Chicago slum just like you .
Lauren Landis rubbed her face against the blanket .
She was glad the fat man had left .
She called softly , `` Barney '' .
He looked in her direction but he didn't answer .
She said , `` Barney , why is he keeping me here '' ? ?
Still no answer .
Lauren said , `` Why can't I call my home ? ?
Barney finished the cigarette he had been smoking .
Lauren said , `` Please '' ? ?
She dropped her head on her arms on the counter .
With a sturdy act of will she turned her mind away from herself ; ;
And what would her mother be doing right now ? ?
Lauren Landis was in trouble and she was alone .
Roberta Landis put her hand on her husband's arm as he slid in the driver's seat beside her .
`` Dave .
Dave made some sound meant to convey agreement .
She stammered , `` You heard what he said about police ? ?
The car door crashed shut .
Roberta said , `` no .
The big car sprang away from the curb like something alive .
Roberta glanced at him and stopped trembling .
His jowls were spiked by barbs of graying beard .
Marty recognized the man .
Marty smiled at Squire pleasantly and said , `` There was a cab waiting for me here .
Squire chewed his gum , his jaw moving in a steady rhythm .
`` Did anyone see my cab '' ? ?
He avoided showing any surprise or annoyance when no one answered him .
`` I have to get back to Jarrodsville '' , he went on .
The seventeen men stood and stared at him for a moment longer .
There was no word spoken , no apparent signal given .
Yet the men all moved at the same instant .
They piled into the waiting cars , motors roared , the cars sped off .
The station wagon and the old Plymouth headed east toward Jarrodsville .
In seconds all four cars were out of sight .
Marty Land stood alone on a red-clay road as storm clouds gathered ominously in the sky again .
Land looked back toward the dilapidated house .
There were other farmhouses nearby .
There was nothing he could do but walk .
Marty faced east and started walking down the left side of the road .
As he approached the first farmhouse , thunder sounded behind him again , closer now and louder , like a steadily advancing drum corps .
On his side of the road there were two farm hands , well back in a field , leaning against a plow .
The drums of thunder were right behind him now .
A foolish thought came into his head .
The fencing by the roadside ended .
The station wagon came to a stop a couple of hundred feet in front of him , beside a fenced field .
Marty looked helplessly in both directions .
He jumped , and sank to his knees in muddy water .
As the two cars roared by , there was a high-pitched eerie , nerve-shattering sound .
For moments he stood in water , shivering and gasping for breath .
He could not go through the fields .
He did not dare climb back up to the road .
The fence , his only refuge when the metal death came roaring at him , was made of rails , all right , but the rails were protected by a thick screening of barbed wire that would rip his flesh if he pressed against it .
He lost all sense of dignity .
And then he heard them .
And now he saw them .
The Plymouth was coming at him from the east , the pickup truck from the west .
He stumbled to the middle of the road and simply stood there , waiting for them , a perfect target .
The cars must have had their gas pedals pushed down to the floor boards .
The weird , insane sound of the Rebel yell reverberated again and echoed from the distant hills .
He did not leave the middle of the road .
`` Oh , no , not again '' , he said aloud .
There was a new sound , a sound as piercing as the Rebel yell , yet different .
The car drew up alongside him and stopped .
`` Get in '' , Charley Estes said brusquely .
He staggered into the back seat and lay back , fighting for breath .
Pete turned around and said to Marty , `` I guess you think I'm a yellow-bellied hound .
The sheriff was occupied with maneuvering the car around in a very narrow space .
Then he turned the telephone over to Rourke , and went into the bedroom to change his slippers for dry socks and shoes .
Shayne looked at his watch .
Rourke confirmed the appointment over the phone and hung up .
Shayne said briskly , `` Grab another drink if you want it .
`` Where '' ? ?
`` It's out in the Northeast section .
`` It's parked in front '' .
`` I'd better keep on driving yours '' , Shayne decided , `` because I'll be going on over to the Beach .
`` A lady .
In Rourke's car , Shayne drove east to Biscayne Boulevard and north toward Felice Perrin's address which had been given to him by the Peralta governess .
`` I want to be in Scotty's Bar at midnight when Marsha makes her phone call there '' , he ended grimly .
`` This deal at Las Putas Buenas where the two knife-men jumped you '' , said Rourke with interest , `` that sounds like it was set up with malice aforethought by the luscious Mrs. Peralta , doesn't it '' ? ?
`` It does '' , Shayne grunted sourly , still able to taste her mouth on his in the Green Jungle parking lot .
`` Do you think Laura did have the counterfeit bracelet made without her husband's knowledge '' ? ?
`` I haven't the faintest idea .
Rourke could see it better out the right-hand side , and he said , `` yes .
Shayne got in the left-hand lane and cut across the Boulevard divider .
Shayne drove westward from the Boulevard slowly , letting Rourke crane his head out the window and watch for street numbers .
He turned to see the briefly-illumed faces of two men in the parked car just as Rourke said , `` It's the next house , Mike .
Instead of pulling into the curb , Shayne increased his speed slightly to the corner where he swung left .
`` I told you , Mike '' , said Rourke in an aggrieved voice .
Shayne said , `` I know it was , Tim '' .
`` I didn't notice it .
`` It has a Beach license , Tim .
`` Wait a minute , Mike .
Shayne nodded grimly .
`` What are they doing here '' ? ?
`` A stake-out , I suppose .
Shayne opened the door on his side and stepped out .
Shayne chuckled .
He crossed the street and walked swiftly southward to circle back to the Boulevard and north a block to the open restaurant .
He was standing at the end of the bar enjoying a slug of cognac when Rourke came in six or eight minutes later .
Shayne said happily , `` I've got it all worked out , Tim .
The bartender brought Rourke's drink and Shayne laid a twenty-dollar bill on the bar .
`` We sure don't '' .
As the detective slid it into his pocket , Rourke asked sadly , `` What in hell are you going to do , Mike '' ? ?
`` Make a couple of punk detectives named Geely and Harris wish to God they'd stayed out of my way this afternoon .
Shayne strode out blithely , and Rourke checked his watch and sipped his drink , getting a dime ready to make the telephone call to the police .
Outside , Shayne hesitated when he saw that Rourke had parked his coupe directly in front of the bar headed south .
He went swiftly up the sidewalk toward the parked car with the two Beach detectives in the front seat .
The big , paunchy man named Geely was on that side , half-turned in the seat toward his hatchet-faced companion so that his back partially rested against the closed door .
Shayne turned the handle and jerked the door open before either of the men were quite aware of his presence in the night .
Geely grunted and slid partly out , and Shayne's left arm snaked in around his neck to help him , while he set himself solidly on the roadway and swung his right fist to the big , gum-chewing jaw before Geely could straighten up .
Shayne stepped back to let him slump to the ground , and then dived over him through the open door into Harris who was cursing loudly and trying to drag a gun from a shoulder holster , somewhat impeded by the steering wheel .
Shayne locked his big hands around Harris' thin neck and dragged him out over the seat into the roadway .
He got the pint of liquor out of his pocket and unscrewed the top , sprinkled the pungent stuff liberally over both men , and then tossed the open bottle in on the front seat .
He turned , then , to look toward the lighted Boulevard , and saw Rourke's tall , emaciated figure come out of the lounge and hurriedly start to angle across the street toward the opposite side .
Shayne strolled across to intercept the reporter in front of the two-story house where Felice Perrin lived , and asked casually , `` Get the police okay '' ? ?
`` Sure .
`` Why the two damned fools got all excited when they saw the bottle , and knocked each other out cold '' , Shayne said good-humoredly .
They went up onto a front porch and into a small hallway where a dim bulb burned high in the ceiling .
The stairway on the right was dark , but there was a wall-switch at the bottom which lighted another dim bulb at the top , and they went up .
There were two front rooms , both dark behind their transoms , and there was no sound or light in the entire house to indicate that any of the occupants were awake .
Eight , nine steps above him , Roberts had paused .
If I could call in , they could check the story while we were on our way .
Then he heard it , like a muffled thud , felt a subtle change in air pressure .
By a wrenching effort , he managed to hunch and draw in , to take the final fall on his back and shoulders rather than his head .
Mickey's eyes fixed on the other's feet , which would first betray the moment and direction of an attack .
`` Come on '' , he said .
Roberts brushed at his eyes with his free hand and started down the steps .
They were eight feet apart when Roberts cleared the last step .
`` Any time , Roberts '' , he said .
The taunt was lost on Roberts .
Mickey backed off again and Roberts hesitated , then came along .
The kick came , sudden and vicious but short .
Roberts careened backward , his back arched , fought for balance and , failing , stumbled against the newel post at the foot of the stairs .
Mickey found himself leaning against the desk , with stiff hands , panting for breath .
12
There's no way to take him in now and keep those other two -- Wister and the one who hired the two of them -- from finding out about Roberts and lamming out .
He looked at where Roberts lay sprawled on the step .
One thing , he thought , nobody knows about it yet .
He climbed the stairs , went into Roberts' room , found a suitcase and packed as much into it as he could .
When he had closed the suitcase he found a rag and moved about the room , wiping carefully everything he might have touched .
He found the key to the Jeep , got it started and warmed it up for five minutes .
The body was heavier than he had anticipated .
He drove carefully in the direction of the brief tour they had taken earlier .
It wasn't like carrying the suitcase .
He stood looking down for a few seconds , then backed up two or three paces from the edge .
He knelt slowly and dumped the corpse onto the floor of the tunnel .
Deep enough , he decided .
He made his way back to the Jeep .
In the garage he checked the Jeep for signs of the use he had made of it .
He put in a call to Cunningham from his hotel room .
Jeb cautioned him not to be too hopeful and then , ignoring his own advice , said excitedly , `` But it does sound good .
`` I'm not exactly jumping up and down with enthusiasm .
On the highway he relaxed and enjoyed the drive over Lake Pontchartrain and along the coast .
Gulf Springs was ten miles inland -- more of a quaint old coast town than those along the beach made garish by tourist attractions .
He checked into a motel and drove downtown .
He figured his best bet was a call on the sheriff .
Seated in front of the desk , Hank said , `` I'm looking for some information with very little to go on , Sheriff '' .
He explained the background of the case , ending with the tenuous clue which had brought him to Gulf Springs .
The sheriff's swivel chair tilted back .
`` Maybe the society editor would remember a good-looking out-of-town bride '' .
`` That's an idea .
Tracking down Mrs. Calhoun was like trying to catch up with Paul Revere between Lexington and Concord .
She was a large woman with a frizzled gray poodle cut and a pencil clamped like a bit between her teeth while she hunted and pecked on an old typewriter .
`` Last year ? ?
`` What reason did she give '' ? ?
`` Said she had a breaking-out on her face -- some sort of allergy -- and none of her old pictures was good enough .
`` Was her name Lisa Carmody '' ? ?
`` Now how in hell would I remember that '' ? ?
`` Never mind .
`` I think they moved away shortly after they were married .
He stood up and thanked her .
`` Have they inherited some money or something '' ? ?
He said vaguely , `` Well , it is a little legal matter , but nothing like that '' .
He hurried across to the courthouse and caught the sheriff just as he was leaving .
`` Sounds like what you're after '' , he said when Hank had finished .
In the basement the sheriff took him to a small , dingy office occupied by a tall , thin man informal in rolled-up shirt sleeves .
`` Mr. Ferrell Hirey Lindsay , chairman of the board of supervisors .
`` Sure '' , said Hirey .
Carruthers crossed the room to a metal door with an open grillework in the top half .
He walked past the sheriff into a windowless room with shelves full of big , leather-bound volumes from floor to ceiling all around the walls .
`` They're all here , back to 1865 '' , Carruthers told him .
`` I'll leave the air conditioner on for you , Mr. Ferrell '' , said Hirey .
Hank thanked them and promised to observe the rules .
Chapter fourteen
It was , indeed , all here -- almost a century .
Last year's volume was at the top a couple of inches below the ceiling .
Since Mrs. Calhoun remembered only that the marriage had been in the spring , he started to plod through several months .
It told him little more than Mrs. Calhoun had remembered , stating that it had been a small , modest wedding compared to some of the others .
There was a marked contrast in the amount of information on bride and groom .
The one line on the bride said she was Miss Lisa Carmody from Baton Rouge .
Hank was beginning to feel sharp concern for Mr. Black .
Now for their exodus from Gulf Springs .
Next on his program was a call to the Jackson office of Peerless Business Machines to find out if Vincent Black was still with them -- or , more specifically , still with us .
He glanced at his watch , saw it was only seven , and decided to indulge his weakness now .
In the middle of the stock market crash , he heard a slight noise in the outer office .
He jumped up and turned around to see the metal door closing .
He pressed his face against the grille .
The light shining through the grille dimly illumined the office beyond -- enough for him to see there was no one there .
`` Hey , come back '' , he shouted .
Then the faint beginnings of fear stirred in his mind .
Whoever it was had meant to shut him up in here , had followed him and waited till the courthouse and square were deserted .
Then he heard it and smelled it -- the steady hissing , the dread , familiar pungency of gas escaping .
Until now , Lilac Gaylor and Lila Kingsley had been like an anagram which he could unscramble at his own pace and choosing .
Except for those minutes in her room , he had lost touch with her as a reality .
`` Well '' -- said Mr. Skyros .
`` Time '' , said Angie , and he smiled very sweet and slow at Mr. Skyros .
Dear heaven , no , thought Mr. Skyros , turning away as another man came in .
`` Big favor I done you .
Ace of spades -- a widow , that was what they called a widow , these low-class crooks remembered Mr. Skyros distractedly .
Mr. Skyros did not at all like the look on Angelo's regular-featured , almost girlishly good-looking face -- or indeed anything about Angelo .
`` Look , my friend '' , he said , `` in my life I learn , how is it the proverb says , better an ounce of prevention to a pound of cure .
`` That's a long while '' , said Angie .
And Mr. Skyros didn't like Angie , but what with Prettyman and three of his boys inside , and not likely to come out -- And Angie such a valuable salesman , Prettyman said -- All the nuisance and danger of getting in touch with practically a whole new bunch of boys -- Why did everything have to happen at once ? ?
Denny said stupidly , `` Why , you ain't turning Angie down , are you , Mr. Skyros ? ?
Angelo gave him an affectionate smile .
Oh , God , the name repeated over and over , anybody to hear -- Not being a fool , Mr. Skyros knew why .
Of course , there was another factor .
Good God above , had not Domokous been enough ? ?
He patted Angelo's thin shoulder paternally .
`` Well , that's your business , Mr. Skyros '' , said Angie , and his dreamy eyes moved past Mr. Skyros' shoulder to gaze vaguely out the ground-glass window .
`` Oh , now , I don't know about that much '' , said Mr. Skyros .
`` Sure '' , said Angie .
`` I do my best '' , said Mr. Skyros earnestly , `` just for you , my friend .
The expedient thing -- yes , very true , one must make do as one could , in some situations .
Katya Roslev , who would be Katharine Ross so very soon now , rang up her first sale of the day and counted back the change .
She'd be through here , just no time at all -- leave this kind of thing 'way behind .
No need say anything at all to the old woman .
A better life .
`` You've give me the wrong change '' , said the customer sharply .
Katya made up the amount in indifferent silence .
Soon , very soon now
sixteen
After he'd got out fresh liver for Bast , he paused to look at her crouched daintily over her dish .
Maude's long nose unexpectedly wrinkled up .
But she was talking of Emile when she saw the black line of the open door ; ;
coffee .
`` Oh .
Maude swooped up the cup and hiked up her top hoop as if about to take off with a racing start .
`` I don't know Mrs. Stowe .
`` They can't do anything .
She had swished away , she had been gone for a long time probably when Sarah suddenly realized that she ought to stop her , pour out the coffee , so no one would drink it .
She was deeply , horribly sure that Lucien had filled it with opium .
She felt cold and hot , sticky and chilly at the same time .
She had lost a bottle of opium -- but that was on the trip from New Orleans .
It was not very reasonable to believe that Lucien had procured unprocurable opium and come back to Honotassa with a formed plan to murder her .
Then somebody else ? ?
That was not reasonable either .
She began to doubt whether there had been in fact a lethal dose of opium in the cup .
That made a certain amount of logic .
No .
She wouldn't go back to New York as Maude suggested ; ;
She dressed and the accustomed routine restored to her a sense of normal everyday life .
But before she left her room she dug into her big moire bag , took out the envelope holding her marriage contract and the wax seal had been broken .
Rev had known all along .
She thrust the envelope back in the bag ; ;
She went downstairs and received another curious shock , for when Glendora flapped into the dining room in her homemade moccasins , Sarah asked her when she had brought coffee to her room and Glendora said she hadn't .
Sarah swallowed past another kind of constriction in her throat .
`` Miss Maude .
`` We've got to eat '' , Sarah said , curtly , because a chill crawled over her again .
Glendora flapped away .
Glendora dropped a chicken and a flurry of feathers , and went with her through the drizzle , to the storehouse .
It was a long , low room , like a root cellar , for it was banked up with soil , and vines had run rampant over that , too .
They wouldn't go hungry , not yet .
Maude .
She sent Glendora back to the house , her basket and her apron laden .
Maude had the opportunity to take the bottle of opium from Sarah's room .
Yet Maude had suggested that Sarah return to New York .
There was no use in standing there in the drizzle , trying to find a link between Emile's murder and opium in a cup of coffee .
She started back for the house , saw a light in the office , opened the door and surprised a domestic little scene which was far outside the dark realm of murder or attempted murder .
A lighted lamp stood on the table that dusky , drizzling day .
`` With boots on '' , Lolotte laughed softly .
Rev looked up and saw her .
Rev said , `` Come in , Sarah .
And what news , Sarah thought as satirically as Maude might have said it .
Rev's face was suddenly a little fixed and questioning .
Everything in the office , the spreading circle of lamplight , the patch of leather in Lolotte's hands .
Her words jumbled together and she all but ran from the office and from the question in Rev's face .
Now why did I do that ? ?
As she reached the kitchen door the answer presented itself ; ;
It might be , indeed it had already proved to be a marriage without love , but it was marriage .
Always provided that Lucien himself had not dosed her coffee with opium , she thought , as coldly and sharply , again , as Maude might have said it .
She paused at the kitchen door , caught her breath , told herself firmly that the opium was only an attempt to frighten her and went into the kitchen , where Glendora was eyeing the chickens dismally and Maude was cleaning lamp chimneys .
Again the homely , everyday details of daily living refuted a vicious attempt to frighten her -- or to murder her .
The homely everyday details of living and domestic requirements also pressed upon her with their immediate urgency .
`` Not since last night .
`` Maybe there isn't .
`` You think Black's the one we're looking for '' ? ?
`` Yeah .
`` What a stinking world '' , Rourke said .
`` I know '' .
`` Will you be coming back soon '' ? ?
`` I think so .
`` Gilborn's secretary ? ?
`` I don't think anything .
`` Right .
`` Aren't you ever going to go home '' ? ?
`` It sure as hell doesn't look like it , does it ? ?
`` Remember to tell that to the next corpse you meet '' .
Conrad hung up and sat on the small telephone-booth bench , massaging his right leg .
He looked at his watch .
He wondered how long it would be before they had a signed confession from Lionel Black .
Thirty years' experience let him know , even at this early stage , that Black was his man .
But he still wanted to know why .
It was a cold , windy day , the day after Kitti's death , but Stanley Gilborn paid no attention to the blustery October wind .
After leaving Conrad , Gilborn had no destination .
As he walked , he tried to think .
Of Kitti .
There was nothing coherent about his thinking .
The enormity of what Conrad had told him made it impossible for Gilborn to accept , with any degree of realism , the actuality of it .
Conrad's words had intellectual meaning for him only .
Whoever he was and your wife were intimate .
Gilborn remembered Conrad's exact words .
When Kitti was alive -- and he remembered the pressure of her hand resting lightly on his arm -- she had been the center of his life .
She was the sun , he the closest planet orbiting around her , the rest of the world existing and visible yet removed .
For fifty-five years he had lived , progressing towards a no-goal , eating , working , breathing without plan , without reason .
Kitti had come along to justify everything .
Not once , in the time that he had known her , had he ever considered the possibility , not once , not for one one-thousandth of a second , of her infidelity .
He could not consider it now .
The walk ended , inevitably , right in front of his hotel building .
Gilborn passed by him without seeing him .
He crossed the lobby and rode up in the elevator lost in his own thoughts .
In the apartment itself , all was still .
Except that Kitti wasn't there .
Without taking off his coat , he sat in the blue chair which still faced the closed bedroom door .
At last , sitting there , in the familiar surroundings , the truth began to sink in .
Who ? ?
He felt no anger towards Kitti , no sense that she had betrayed him .
Who ? ?
She was all he had , everything he had , everything he wanted .
Who ? ?
Where there is a left-hand entry in the ledger , there is a right-hand one , he remembered from his school days .
Where there is a victim , there is a killer .
Who ? ?
Whoever he was and your wife were intimate .
He rose from the chair , took off his coat .
The bed still showed signs of where Kitti had lain .
The bed was empty now .
Gilborn wondered whether Kitti had lain in that same bed with Who ? ?
For thirty minutes , Stanley Gilborn stood there .
At the end of the half-hour , racking his brains , thinking over and over again of Kitti , her friends , her past , he left the bedroom .
Who ? ?
He could think of no answer .
Gilborn put on his coat again .
He knew he would never see it again .
In the street , walking as quickly as he could , Stanley Gilborn was a lone figure .
On Blanche Jacobs , Kitti Gilborn's death had a quite different effect .
In Blanche's defense , it must be said she was unaware of the newborn hope .
If anyone had asked her , she would have described herself only as nervous and worried .
She wondered whether Stanley would call .
She had skipped her lunch hour in the fear that he might call while she was out .
Why hadn't he called ? ?
Men , she reflected , even men like Stanley , are unpredictable .
She tried to think of his unpredictable actions in the eleven years she had known him and discovered they weren't so many after all .
Stanley really was quite predictable .
It was in the kitchen , as she was watching the kettle , waiting for the water to boil , that he had grabbed for her .
Later , she apologized for the long scratch across his face , tried to explain she couldn't help herself , that the panic arose in her unwanted .
Stanley wasn't like that .
Except for that one morning .
She had assumed before then that one day he would ask her to marry him .
Blanche couldn't remember when she had first arrived at this conclusion .
She was thirty-one years old then .
For Blanche , it was only a matter of time before Stanley would propose .
But one day , she expected , he would somehow discover , without her having to tell him , that there was such a woman in the world ; ;
And then , unexpectedly , Stanley made his announcement .
On that first day , Blanche literally thought she was going to die , or , at the very least , go out of her mind .
It might have been easier for her if Kitti Walker hadn't been everything that Blanche was not .
Kitti was thirty years younger than Stanley , taller than Stanley , prettier than Stanley had any right to hope for , much less expect .
Kitti had come into the office , on somebody's recommendation , because she needed help in preparing her income tax return .
Stanley had filled out the return and because , when he was finished , it was close to the lunch hour , he had politely asked Kitti to join him , never expecting her to accept .
Blanche knew all this because the door to Stanley's office was open and , without straining too hard , she could hear everything that was said .
Stanley had gone out , saying he would be back in an hour .
After that day , Blanche still didn't know exactly what had happened .
Blanche knew something must be causing Stanley's new , strange behavior but she never once connected it with Kitti Walker .
Somehow , Blanche managed to cover the stunned surprise and offer her congratulations .
That night the two of them left for a week's honeymoon in Acapulco .
While they were away Blanche came into the office every morning , running things as she had always run them for Stanley , going through the week in a dazed stupor , getting things done automatically , out of habit .
For exactly one week , she was able to continue in this manner .
On the morning of Stanley's return , however , her strength left her .
She stayed away for ten days .
Mostly , she stayed in bed .
`` Right '' , said the fingerprint man .
He demonstrated by playing an imaginary piano , doing a staccato passage with a broadly exaggerated attack .
Perhaps if Felix had first come upon us when this boy was not cavorting so gaily up and down the hall outside the murdered woman's apartment , we might have had less trouble convincing Felix of our seriousness .
Felix was the exception .
The M.E.'s boys had finished their on-the-spot examination and the body had been removed for autopsy .
Just put yourself in Felix's place for a moment .
You still have your paper hat and you're wearing it , but then , it is an extraordinary paper hat and , in addition to anything else you may be , you are also the sculptor who created that most peculiar dame out in the back yard .
You have your paper horn clutched in your big , craggy fist , and for your entrance you have planned a noisy , colorful and exuberant greeting to your friends and tenants .
Maybe one could be startled into forgetfulness .
`` Got the upstairs guy '' , he bellows .
Even then , as you go into the house oppressed by the knowledge that something is cooking and that your house has passed under this unaccountable , official control , could you go on forgetting that you still had that ridiculous hat on your head and you were still carrying that childish horn in your hand ? ?
What I'm getting at is that we were fully prepared for Felix's being an odd one .
If Felix was still wearing the hat and carrying the horn because he'd forgotten about them , he now remembered .
Our man stopped dead and glowered at Felix .
We waited till he had finished laughing , and that gave us a few moments for taking stock of him .
`` Felix '' ? ?
`` Me '' , he said merrily .
`` That much Latin we remember '' , Gibby said dryly .
`` I try '' , Felix said blithely .
`` Bully for you '' , Gibby said .
`` No rest of it .
`` All there ever was '' ? ?
`` The past I leave to historians '' , Felix intoned , demonstrating that he could be pompous as well as happy .
`` You live in the present '' ? ?
`` In the present '' , Felix proclaimed .
`` We '' , Gibby announced , `` are not philosophers .
The happy one could never have looked happier .
`` Those lovely whorls '' , he chortled .
He was prancing along the hall , heading for the next flight of stairs .
Gibby called him back .
`` That important '' ? ?
`` That important '' .
`` Grubb '' , Felix whispered .
`` Felix Grubb '' ? ?
`` Shh '' , Felix implored .
Obligingly Gibby lowered his voice .
Having volunteered that he was a man of about sixty , he bounded up the stairs and with each leap rendered the number less credible .
You may think we didn't need Nancy and Jean , but you always get what you can when you can , and we had no guarantee that a fingerprint record on them couldn't be useful before we were through with this case .
Felix took us into his studio .
When Felix first opened the door on it , all these shades were tightly drawn and the whole studio was as dark as night .
Expecting something more-than-average wacky , I was surprised by what we found .
Andy did not see the newspapers the next day .
He finally fell asleep around six in the morning with the aid of a sleeping capsule , a crutch he rarely used , and didn't awaken until early afternoon .
Outside his window bloomed a beautiful summer day .
Hub was sitting in a chair that blocked the hall door .
`` Reporters '' ? ?
`` Our own people .
`` I suppose .
Hub considered .
`` She expecting me to '' ? ?
He had little time to himself , anyway .
But from Rocco Vecchio , they heard nothing .
At last it was time to depart .
They succeeded in eluding the curious at the hotel , but there was no chance of avoiding them at the nightclub .
`` It's worse inside '' , Thornburg informed Andy .
Backstage was tomblike by contrast .
Bake was waiting to report that Lou DuVol had been sobered up to the point where he could function efficiently .
Andy told him , `` Bake , I wish you'd talk to Skolman , see if some kind of p. a. system can be rigged up outside .
`` I'll try .
Skolman wasn't the only one who didn't care for Andy's scheme .
Andy rolled up the revised script he had been studying .
`` They're going to louse me up good .
Andy sighed .
`` Sure , I know .
`` No longer than yours .
`` Someday '' , Bonner said , `` you're going to ask us for help .
`` What you don't understand is that I'm asking for it now '' .
But Bonner departed , still full of ill will .
Andy's performance was scheduled for eleven o'clock .
Bake cursed .
Thornburg popped in to advise , `` Andy , Skolman's sending up smoke signals .
`` What's he complaining about '' ? ?
`` No .
Andy said , `` Well , I guess we can't wait any longer .
Shirl Winter said , `` I'll stay on the phone , Mr. Paxton .
`` You're a sweetheart -- but leave one line open .
They were right .
Within this framework , what followed was strained , even macabre .
The worst was yet to come .
As Andy reached the finale of his act , a subdued commotion backstage drew his attention to the wings .
Andy felt his heart thud heavily with relief .
He sensed rather than heard the gasp that swept across the audience .
`` Lullaby and goodnight .
His voice shook .
They did ; ;
He stumbled off-stage .
Hub was there to support him .
At this moment , all he could think of was what he'd been forced to undergo .
`` Bunch of damn jerks '' , Hub growled .
Thornburg patted his arm .
Vecchio shouldered in .
Andy nodded dully .
He clutched that knowledge to him as he returned to his dressing room .
His son watched until he got as far as the hall , almost out of sight , then hurried after .
He caught up with the old man in the living room .
`` Just this one favor , Dad .
`` Why not '' ? ?
`` The Bartlett girl was killed by Mr. Dronk's son .
His father looked him over closely .
`` Now , see here '' --
`` The trouble with you '' , old man Arthur began , and then checked himself .
Mrs. Holden turned from the window draperies .
With sudden energy , she went to the phone and rang Holden's office and asked for him .
`` I think you had better come home '' .
`` Mae , we're so busy .
`` I don't care .
`` But I couldn't do that , even if I were home '' ! !
He couldn't see the grin that split her mouth ; ;
`` What '' ? ?
Deliberately , she ignored the yelp .
`` Then I'd better wait until five '' .
`` No-o-o .
In his office , Mr. Holden replaced the phone slowly .
He got into the car .
What on earth was in Mae's mind , that she wanted him up there spying on what the cops were doing ? ?
He tried to ignore what his own common sense told him , but it wasn't possible ; ;
Though his inner thoughts cringed at it , he forced himself to think back , recreating the scene in which Mae claimed to have caught him molesting the child .
It hadn't amounted to anything .
A second scene flashed before his mind , the interior of the garage at the new house and the young Bartlett girl turning startled to meet him , the dim dark and the sudden confusion and fear and then the brightness as Mae had clicked on the light .
Suppose the cops somehow got hold of that ? ?
Well , it hadn't been what it seemed , he'd had no idea the girl was in there .
And when he came to examine the scene , there was a certain staginess to it , it had the smell of planning , and a swift suspicion darted into his mind .
Too monstrous , of course .
He leaned on the wheel , clutching it , staring into the sunlight , and tried to bring order into his thoughts .
But she was .
Even as the conviction of truth roared through him , shattering his last hope of safety , he was reaching to release the hand brake , to head up the road for home , doing her bidding .
At the gate he slowed , looking around .
A new idea drifted in from nowhere .
It wasn't what Mae would want him to do , though .
It would be such a relief .
What was that old sign , supposed to be painted over a door somewhere , Abandon hope , all ye who enter here ? ?
Why , Holden said to himself , surprised at his own sudden insight , I'll bet some of those people who enter are just as happy as can be .
He drove into the paved space before the garage and got out , slamming the car door .
He went to the front door and opened it and looked in .
Mae entered the room from the hallway to the kitchen .
`` Mae '' --
`` I've been thinking '' , she said , swallowing the toast .
She had caught him off guard , no preparation , nothing certain but that ahead lay some kind of disaster .
`` I've been looking for them , and they're gone .
`` I don't remember any overalls at all '' .
`` They were all faded .
`` Mae , sit down .
She shook her head .
A seeping coldness entered Holden's being ; ;
A man with a sketch pad in hand sat with a large pink woman in a small office at the end of a long , dim corridor and made pencil lines on paper and said , `` Is this more like it , Mrs. MacReady ? ?
Men blew dust on objects in a room on the seventeenth floor of the Hotel Dumont and blew it off again , and did the same in a tiny , almost airless room in a tenement in the West Forties .
Men from the Third Detective District , Eighteenth Precinct , had the longest , the most tedious , job .
The Hotel King Arthur across the street provided almost twice as many problems .
Check the overnighters out .
There was also the one salient question to ask , and ask widely : Did you notice anything out of the way ? ?
There was , of course , no hope it really would be that simple .
( Detective Pearson , Eighteenth Precinct , thought for a time he might be on to something .
Anything at all strange ? ?
Well , a man had tried , at the King Arthur , to register with an ocelot .
As reports dribbled in , William Weigand tossed them into the centrifuge which had become his head .
Try to forget motive for the moment .
Take Gardner Willings .
Faith Constable had had to `` go on '' from the party and had , presumably , gone on .
Lauren herself ? ?
It occurred to Bill Weigand that he was , on a hunch basis , eliminating a good many .
The Masons , mother or son , or mother and son ? ?
Bill picked up the telephone ; ;
`` Send out a pickup on Mrs. Mason and the boy when you've got enough to go on '' , Bill said .
Mullins would do .
A man named Lars Simon , playwright-director , had expressed a wish that Anthony Payne drop dead .
A man named Blaine Smythe , with `` y '' and `` e '' but pronounced without them , had been fired at Payne's insistence .
Mullins ? ?
When Siamese cats are intertwined it is difficult to tell where one leaves off and another begins .
But at this the one too-large cat suddenly became two cats , stretching .
It was not , whatever tale was told by tails .
The telephone rang .
The voice had music in it .
`` I said I would '' , Pam said .
She was interrupted .
`` Call this a cry for help '' , Faith Constable said .
`` Through a door conveniently unlocked '' , Madden supplemented .
`` That damn door '' , said the police chief .
`` A gift horse to be viewed with suspicion '' .
`` Don't forget , there was the hope it would pass for a natural death '' , Pauling reminded him .
`` Well , with a house as big as that there must be at least one cellar window that wouldn't be noticed right away unless there was a police investigation '' .
`` Yeah .
The telephone interrupted him .
With his free hand he pulled a pad and pencil toward him and began to make notes as he listened , saying , `` Uh-huh '' and `` I see '' at intervals .
At last he said , `` Well , thank you for calling , Mr. Benson .
He hung up .
Pauling paused again .
They discussed this possibility .
Arthur Williams had to be located , they agreed .
Scholarship applicant ? ?
Madden said that he would see him at two and made another call , this one to Mrs. Meeker's lawyers .
He inferred that Hohlbein and Garth were high-priced lawyers .
He had lunch with Pauling .
He disliked Garth on sight , conservative clothes and haircut , smile a shade too earnestly boyish for a man who must be well into his thirties , handclasp too consciously quick and firm .
Madden knew that he could be completely wrong about all this , but also knew that he would go right on disliking Garth .
Garth was prepared to be helpful in what he referred to with fastidious distaste as this unfortunate Johnston affair , which would not , he said more than once , have ever come about if Mrs. Meeker had only seen fit to consult Mr. Hohlbein or him about it .
Madden regretted not being able to find fault with so true a statement .
Garth brought one out .
The date , October 8 , 1957 , immediately caught the inspector's eye .
`` Oh no .
Garth hesitated .
The inspector nodded , doubting this .
Madden settled back to read the will .
He skimmed over the millions that went to Meeker Park , Medfield Hospital , the civic center , the Public Health Nursing Association , the library , and so on , pausing when he came to the scholarship fund .
A splendid vote of confidence in Thayer , Madden reflected .
He went on to personal bequests , a list of names largely unknown to him .
Too bad , Madden thought .
Mr. Hohlbein was left twenty thousand , Garth ten .
Madden took up this point with Garth , who shrugged it off .
`` This one came a bit high at thirty thousand or more .
`` Well , she had a number of them where money was concerned '' , Garth said .
Madden inquired next about the audit of the scholarship fund .
There was an annual audit , Garth informed him .
Garth's glance began to flicker to his watch .
He said that he had already told the police chief that he didn't know what insurance man had recommended Johnston to Mrs. Meeker .
No doubt Mrs. Meeker had snubbed him many a time and he felt no grief over her passing .
The inspector knew as he left that this was wishful thinking .
Brian Thayer had a downtown address .
He occupied a two-bedroom apartment on the fourth floor , using the second bedroom as his office .
He took Madden into the room he used as an office .
The inspector declined .
Thayer shook his head .
`` Dammit , Phil , are you trying to wreck my career ? ?
Hoag said , `` I didn't send for you , Leigh .
`` Phil , for God's sake , go away .
`` Leigh , get a grip on yourself .
Griffith looked at him suspiciously through red-rimmed eyes .
`` I'm not pulling your leg .
`` No use , he won't come '' .
`` I was hit -- knocked out .
`` He says I'm to take the message '' .
`` It doesn't matter .
Griffith said , `` That's impossible .
`` Nevertheless it's true '' .
`` Impossible '' .
Hoag looked terrified .
`` Where'd you expect , the john ? ?
`` Where is that '' ? ?
`` Facing us , two flights up .
Hoag grabbed him by the shoulders .
Griffith raised placating hands .
`` I want Captain Docherty '' .
Docherty said , `` It's okay , Bonfiglio , let him by '' .
Griffith said , `` Hoag told me to tell you '' -- he waited until they were close ; ;
Griffith looked half-crocked to the captain ; ;
`` He claims Mahzeer's in a plot to kill the P.M. '' .
Docherty went taut : was it possible ? ?
`` Where'd your friend Hoag get his information '' ? ?
`` Haven't the faintest , Captain '' .
`` Would you mind sending him up here ? ?
But Hoag had not stayed on the front steps when Griffith disappeared into the building .
The door opened and three men and a woman in a sari swept past him and down the stairs .
Hoag turned .
Hoag crossed the narrow street , squeezing between parked cars to reach the sidewalk .
He went on to the next building and found what he expected -- the mingled cooking aromas of a public vestibule .
He opened the inner door ; ;
What was he to do now ? ?
His thoughts were scattered by the sharp report of a rifle from the other side of the door .
Hoag stretched his left hand to the wall and fumbled for the switch : evil flourishes in the dark .
After Captain Docherty sent Arleigh Griffith for Hoag he was able to complete his detailed inspection of the third floor and to receive a report from his man covering the floors above before Griffith returned , buoyed up by a brief stop for another glass of champagne .
The safe at Ingleside District Station stands next to the gum machine in a narrow passageway that leads to Captain Harris's office ( to the left ) , the lieutenant's office ( farther along and to the left ) and the janitor's supply closet ( straight ahead ) .
The safe is a repository for three dead flashlight batteries , a hundred and fifty unused left-hand fingerprint cards , a stack of unsold Policemen's Ball tickets from last year , and thirty-seven cents in coins and stamps .
He walked up to the lieutenant's office , leaned wearily against the gun rack that housed four rifles and a gas gun nobody remembered having used and a submachine gun that was occasionally tried out on the Academy Range .
`` Where's the Lieut '' ? ?
The clerk wagged his head toward the captain's office .
The lieutenant's sparse brown hair was heavily pomaded , and as Killpath raked the comb through it , it stuck together in thatches so that it looked like umbrella ribs clinging to his pink skull .
Leave me alone , Gun thought .
Killpath peered through half-closed lids at his reflection , thrust up his chin in a gesture of satisfaction and about-faced .
Gun waited for Killpath to sit down behind the desk near the window .
Killpath pulled one thin leg up , clamping his arms around the shinbone to press his knee into an incredibly scrawny gut .
Gun waited .
The 7:45 bell rang and he could hear the outside doors bang shut , closing in the assembled day watch .
Finally , Orville intoned through his hawk nose , `` We can't have people running in any time they please , Sergeant '' .
`` No , sir '' .
He was silent again , possibly listening to the sounds in the squadroom .
Killpath said , `` You were expected to report to my office twenty minutes ago , Sergeant .
`` No , sir '' .
Then Killpath smiled .
The day-watch platoon commander , Lt. Rinker , was calling out the beat assignments , but Matson couldn't make the names mean anything .
`` I called the station at three this morning '' , Killpath's nasal voice pronounced .
`` Sergeant Vaughn , sir '' .
`` Now , now , you're just guessing , Sergeant '' .
`` Sir , Vaughn knows better than to leave the station without a relief .
`` He let a patrolman take over the duties of the station keeper .
`` No , sir '' .
`` But you didn't know a thing about it , did you '' ? ?
Gun told himself that the old bastard was a fool .
`` I was out in the district , sir '' .
`` Oh , yes .
A car pulled into the driveway outside the window .
`` Well '' ? ?
`` I didn't think Accacia knew so many big words , Lieutenant '' .
Killpath licked his lips .
`` Negligence , hell '' ! !
`` Let's not push our patience beyond the danger line , Sergeant '' , Killpath nasaled .
Gun stiffened , his hands balling into fists at his sides .
Killpath leaned forward again , rocked comfortably with his arms still wrapped around one knee .
`` Sorry , Orville .
`` I've been here for some time '' .
It had come as no great surprise to Matson that the hot water in the showers didn't work , that Loren Severe had thrown up all over the stairs , or that some thieving bastard of a cop had walked off with his cigarettes .
Now , as he passed the open counter that divided the assembly room from the business office , he nodded and said good night to the station keeper and his clerks , not stopping to hear the day-watch playback of his chewing out .
Not that he gave a damn what the grapevine sent out about Killpath's little speech on the comportment of platoon commanders .
At the doorway he squinted up at the gray morning overcast and patted his jacket pockets for the cigarettes , remembering then that he'd left them at the Doughnuttery .
Not yet .
It was nine o'clock in the morning : the hour which , like a spade turning clods of earth , exposed to the day a myriad of busy creatures that had lain dormant in the quiet night .
Then
On the right window , at eye level , in smaller print but also in gold , was Gonzalez , Prop. , and under that , Se Habla Espanol .
Aside from the fact that business was slow this time of year and his one salesgirl was not the most enterprising , Mr. Phillips had no worries at all , and he said as much to Gun Matson , who sat across from him in civilian clothes , on a Jiffy-Couch-a-Bed , mauve velour , $79.89 nothing-down special ! !
`` She's honest as the day '' , Mr. Phillips said , and added , `` Mr. Gunnar , I can say this to you : Beebe is a little too honest .
`` Why don't you just hire somebody else '' ? ?
`` She says she has to finish a story '' .
Casey made some comment , but his mind was busy as he considered the man .
All this went through Casey's mind in the first instant , but what held his interest was the fact that these two should be together at all .
`` Where did you pick him up '' ? ?
`` Oh , I've known him quite a while '' .
`` I've been after her for years '' , Needham said , `` but I've never been able to get anywhere until the last few days '' .
The girl's eyes were softly shining as she reached out and touched Casey's hand .
Casey kept his smile fixed , but some small inner disturbance was working on him as he thought again about Needham , who was eight or ten years older than the girl .
`` I'll have to give it some thought '' , he said .
She made a face at him and then she laughed .
`` I'll get my references in order '' , Needham said , and though he spoke with a smile , Casey somehow got the idea that he was not particularly amused .
Casey watched them go , still frowning absently and then dismissing the matter as he called for his check .
A taxi took him back to the bar and grill where he had left his car , and a few minutes later he found a parking place across the street from his apartment .
Even from where he stood he could see the neatly folded blanket that he had spread over Burton , the pillow , the sheet of paper on top of it .
Jack :
Look in the wastebasket .
The wastebasket stood near the wall next to the divan , and the instant Casey picked it up he knew what had happened .
For another second or two he gave in to the annoyance that was directed at himself ; ;
Even before his mind had rounded out the idea , he thrust one hand into his trousers pocket and pulled out the six slugs he had taken from the revolver .
There was no answer to this and he began to pace back and forth across the room , his imagination out of control .
`` Yeah '' , he said .
`` Casey '' ? ?
`` Yeah '' .
`` Tony Calenda '' .
Casey heard the voice distinctly and he knew who it was , but it took him a while to make the mental readjustment and control the disturbance inside his head .
`` What picture '' ? ?
`` You took a picture of me at the corner of Washington and Blake about three thirty this afternoon '' .
`` Who says so '' ? ?
`` One of my boys '' .
Casey believed that much .
`` So '' ? ?
`` With my trial coming up in Federal Court next week I wouldn't want that picture published '' .
`` Who says it's going to be published '' ? ?
`` I wouldn't even want it to get around '' .
Under normal circumstances Casey was a little fussy when people told him what to do with pictures he had taken .
`` Look '' , he said .
`` Maybe you'd better tell the guy who hired you what I said '' .
`` You tell him '' .
`` All right '' , Calenda said , his voice still quiet .
`` You do that '' , Casey said .
He hung up with a bang , annoyed at himself for running off at the mouth like that but still terribly concerned with the situation he had helped to create .
By the time he had smoked three cigarettes he had calmed down .
He kept telling himself this as he went out to the kitchen to make a drink .
`` Casey ? ?
Casey heard the click of the distant receiver before he could open his mouth , and it took him no more than three seconds to make his decision .
He was in his car with his camera and equipment bag in less than two minutes , and it took him only three more to reach the corner , a block from Columbus Avenue .
The police car had pulled up behind a small sedan , its headlights still on .
Slowly he pulled out the hand throttle until the boat was moving at little more than a crawl , and watched Elaine rapidly spin from one station to another , tune in the null , then draw in a line on the chart .
Poet came in , raising his eyebrows appreciatively as he saw Elaine .
`` Pretty quick '' , she replied .
Poet nodded , swung below and a moment later emerged from the forward hatch where he picked up the anchor .
`` Reverse '' , Elaine said , then peered through the loop of the RDF and waved to Poet .
Poet came up from below , wearing new bathing trunks .
But instead of chatter there was a null , like on the radio direction finder .
There had been tension in the plane during the silent descent ; ;
Silently , Elaine picked up her keys from the table and went out into the cockpit , Poet behind her , Nick trailing behind him .
Poet whistled softly as he looked at the gun .
Elaine nodded .
`` And the deadliest '' , Poet commented as he buckled on his tank harness .
`` Why do you need an arsenal '' ? ?
`` It's quite possible there's more than codfish down there , man '' , Poet replied with a short , nervous laugh as he held the harness for Elaine .
A moment later , moving awkwardly because of the swimming fins , she picked up the gun , handed the knife to Poet , then rolled off the transom of the boat , back first .
For a while Nick followed the twisting course of the bubbles , wondering which set came from Elaine .
Clasping his hands behind his head , he stared at the blue sky .
Yet Alfredo wanted money wanted money to roam through the deserts .
The small helicopter with its two steel skids churned offshore and Nick raised up to watch it heading south .
Off to the west a beautiful schooner slowly beat its way into the wind , headed on a tack toward San Clemente .
Someday , geologists had warned , the land on both sides of these deeps would fall into the ocean and no more La Jolla or Redondo Beach .
Why , he wondered , had Elaine wanted him along on this trip ? ?
Elaine and Poet returned together , popping up over the transom almost like dolphins breaking water .
He sat up and watched as they pulled themselves over the stern .
Poet shook his head , sliding his face mask up on his forehead .
`` We're right on the edge of the Deep '' , Elaine said .
`` Not a thing '' .
Elaine shook her head as she slipped out of her harness , but Poet nodded .
`` Kee-reist '' ! !
Nick's body became rigid .
The sudden silence was too silent .
She had caught the implication of the oath .
And then Nick knew that all of them knew Elaine , himself and Poet .
Elaine recovered first , so quickly that Nick thought he might have imagined her sudden reaction .
Poet rubbed his arm .
`` I'll get some ointment '' .
Nick sensed it .
The moment the sea closed over Nick , some atavistic sense warned him that he would survive in this alien element only if he did not panic .
The rubber and glass face mask slipped from Poet's forehead , bounced painlessly off Nick's chin , then disappeared .
Suddenly Poet stopped struggling and the two of them hung suspended in the water , not rising , not sinking .
Desperately , Nick flashed one hand up , catching Poet's neck in the bend of his elbow .
As if this was a signal , Poet abruptly began to thrash the water and the quick movement slowly made them sink through the water .
Harbor Point sticks out into the ocean like the fat neck of a steamer clam .
Chief Bob Moore looked his same hick-self ; ;
`` I guess it helps '' , I said , paying no attention to his ribbing .
`` Never could figure out why you ever wanted to be a cop , Jed .
`` Don't worry about my being tough , Moore .
`` Widow , nice sort of woman .
`` Yeah , passed your road block as I drove in '' , I said , sitting on his polished desk .
`` About nine this morning Mrs. Buck phones me she's having trouble with one of her farm hands -- money trouble .
`` Julia '' ? ?
`` Come on , Inspector , look alive .
`` Yeah , seems you have a nice package , with all the strings tied .
`` I'll collar Tim before night '' .
`` Who's your witness '' ? ?
`` Julia had -- has -- an old Indian woman cooking for her -- Nellie Harris .
We walked up Main Street to this big white house , then around to the back .
Chief Moore shook his big head , seemed lost in thought as he stared at the nude body .
I dropped the sheet , glanced at my watch .
`` Sure '' .
Walking back down Main Street , I said , `` I saw the Harbor's one squad car at the road block , we'll ride out in my car '' .
`` Naw , we'll use mine '' , Moore said , opening the door of a sleek white Jaguar roadster .
`` Yeah , it's a real load '' , I told him , looking up the street at my battered Ford .
Five racing minutes later we pulled into the driveway of this typical two-story house , and when the Jaguar stopped I managed to swallow .
Nellie Harris wasn't old , she was ancient -- a tiny shriveled woman with a face like a tan prune .
`` Have you any idea what this Tim and Mrs. Buck were arguing about '' ? ?
`` Probably wages .
`` Did you hear Tim return '' ? ?
`` No sir .
I drummed on the kitchen table with my pencil .
`` Her '' ? ?
`` Was she on friendly terms with other members of her family '' ? ?
`` Didn't have no family -- around here .
I walked into the living room .
`` I'll take you there .
We did 80 miles an hour across a hard dirt road to a cluster of shacks .
Mrs. Tim Williams was about 21 , with skin the color of bitter chocolate , and if you discounted the plain dress and worn slippers , she was startlingly pretty .
Mrs. Williams was both sullen and frightened .
`` Did Mrs. Buck owe him any wages '' ? ?
`` Well , for this week , but they wasn't due 'till Saturday .
`` We'll get him soon , see what he says '' , Chief Moore cut in .
`` Does your husband have a car '' ? ?
`` Got us an old station wagon .
I asked a silly question : `` You've no idea where your husband could be , now '' ? ?
She shook her head .
Moore said , `` Come on , Jed , I have to get to my men '' .
On my way out I told her , `` If you should eh just happen to see your husband , get him to give himself up .
`` Yes .
We made it back to the Harbor in less than four minutes .
Chief Moore said , `` If I don't see you when I return , see you for certain at my road block , Inspector '' .
I had a bowl of decent chowder , phoned the Doc and he said he'd leave the death statements with his girl -- in a half hour .
I dropped into the doctor's office , picked up my forms .
I got into the front seat .
`` Maybe .
She puffed on the cigarette slowly , sitting slumped against the back seat ; ;
But the police have dropped the case .
`` Will the hotel rent it so soon after the crime '' ? ?
`` Why not ? ?
`` Still , they may not want to rent it '' .
`` That's your headache .
`` For what '' ! !
`` There's always a chance they may have overlooked something '' , returned the chief .
Try to imagine you're going to be murdered yourself -- between eleven p.m. and one a.m. the night you arrive '' .
Alec smirked .
The chief's eyes gleamed .
On the train Alec refreshed his memory of the Beauclerk case by reading teletype flimsies -- spot-news stories about the crime sent out by the Pearson City Star , a member of the Syndicate Press .
Diana Beauclerk was a second-rate actress living in New York .
She reached Pearson City at nine p.m. and went straight to the Hotel Westmore .
At the time of her divorce Forbes had promised to pay her a lump sum in lieu of further alimony if she remarried .
Stacy said he left her suite at nine forty-five p.m. .
Next morning she was found dead in her suite with a bullet from a
Colt revolver in her brain .
When Alec finished reading he was sure that either Forbes or Stacy had killed Diana Beauclerk .
The Hotel Westmore proved to be one of the older hotels in Pearson City , and definitely second-rate .
He studied the night clerk as a man measures an adversary .
`` Certainly , sir '' .
`` It was 1105 '' .
The clerk's smile congealed .
Alec's glance went to a chart of guest names and room numbers hanging on the wall behind the clerk .
The clerk's glance followed Alec's .
Alec's face was dark , blunt , and sulky .
There was a sudden stillness in the lobby .
The clerk's eyes flickered .
`` Anybody with a contagious disease been in there '' ? ?
`` No '' ! !
`` I don't believe it '' .
`` St-story '' ? ?
`` I'm with the Syndicated Press , Feature Service .
It was blackmail and the clerk knew it .
The stillness persisted as Alec followed a bellboy across the lobby to the elevator .
The corridor on the eleventh floor was dimly lighted by electric globes at intervals of thirty feet .
The bellboy unlocked a white door numbered 1105 .
The room looked normal and even commonplace .
Alec played the part of an innocent tourist .
`` N-no '' .
`` Afraid you'll lose your job if you don't keep your mouth shut '' ? ?
The boy raised his eyes .
`` Were you on duty here two weeks ago '' ? ?
The boy hesitated .
He was in a hurry to get out of the room .
Alone , Alec examined the doors .
As he ranged his belongings on the bureau he noticed a film of white dust on the dark surface of the wood beyond the linen cover .
Alec glanced into the bathroom .
In the darkness he could see the rosy reflection of the neon sign on the wall opposite the window .
He never knew just what woke him .
He lay still , listening to the silence , watching the light .
Alec heard a faint sound .
He let his eyelids droop and breathed heavily , feigning sleep .
When the neon sign faded out , the shadow disappeared .
Cautiously Alec tensed his muscles , ready to jump .
Abandoning caution , Alec leaped out of bed and groped for the light switch .
Something hard grazed his knuckles .
Alec waited a moment , on guard .
The blue rug had been rolled up and stacked in one corner of the room .
Alec turned him over and discovered a round , lumpy face with narrow , slanting eyes -- a primitive Tartar face from Russia or the Balkans .
There was a slight bulge under the left armpit -- a shoulder holster .
A professional gunman would not have killed her with a weapon of such small caliber as a
.
The man's eyelids fluttered .
`` What are you doing here '' ? ?
The man made no reply .
`` Did you kill Diana Beauclerk '' ? ?
Alec expected an indignant denial , but there was no response at all .
`` Oh , come on , snap out of it ! !
The man opened his mouth , but no words came .
`` Don't you speak English '' ? ?
The man opened his mouth wider .
In good time I shall get to the distressing actuality , to Red McIver and Handley Walker , to murder and sudden death .
It was in 1814 that Abraham Wharf and his sister sat by a meager fire in their house on Dogtown Common , a desolate place even then .
What has this to do with the present ? ?
Yes , gentlemen , I am getting to the point , to my point .
Now , Dogtown is one of those places that creeps into the marrow as worms get into old wood , under the veneer .
We'll walk up there later .
That's your setting , and a sinister one .
I knew Red and Handley well .
You see , besides being custodian of antiquities , I am also registrar .
During the quarrel I learned what the trouble was , from the accusations each hurled at the other .
That battle scene , ridiculous as it was , remained in my mind .
One other cause of jealousy between them I must tell you .
One month ago , on the 20th of October , was the opening of the gunning season in Massachusetts .
That's what the man had said .
The guy is off his rocker , Haney thought to himself , and looked away from those eyes .
He wondered how he got tied up with this stranger .
Brakes howled and a horn blared furiously , but the man would have been hit if Phil hadn't called out to him a second before .
By then , the stranger was thanking Haney profusely and had one arm around his shoulders as if he were an old friend .
Then the man he saved turned and looked squarely into the truck driver's face , without saying a word .
Haney hadn't given it much thought at the time .
When the light went their way , they went on across the street .
Phil usually went alone and kept to himself , sitting in a corner and passing the time by nursing his favorite grudges .
Now he wondered if it was worth it , having a screwball for company .
Haney managed a weak laugh .
A faint crease appeared between the man's eyebrows .
Phil rubbed his forehead wearily .
`` All right '' , he conceded finally , `` if you must know , I don't get along with the landlord .
The man closed his eyes and nodded .
Haney's eyebrows flew up .
Pete smiled modestly .
Five minutes later , before Haney could make his break , the stranger stood up and nodded farewell .
Phil decided to stay a little longer , and as time passed it seemed as if the strange little man had never been there , but for the other glass on the table .
The next day , Sunday , the hangover reminded Haney where he had been the night before .
He went back to work Monday .
Coming home from work , he was startled to see a police car parked in front of the apartment building .
The landlord had died .
Haney hoped that nobody noticed his sudden pallor , as he felt the blood drain from his cheeks .
After a while he began to feel better about it , especially when no one bothered to ask any questions .
Haney went to bed , happy that at least he was rid of that lousy landlord .
So you thought I didn't mean what I said .
However , Haney knew it was not a dream .
He had been sitting in the usual corner at the little table , as far as possible from any talkative , friendly lushes .
Toward the end of his fourth hairy highball , while he was moodily making wet rings on the table-top with the bottom of the glass , he became aware that he was not alone .
Haney felt like shrinking out of sight , but he was already trapped in the corner with the wiry , dark little man .
In a low voice , almost whispering , the man had asked Phil if he was happy with the way the landlord had been taken off his back .
Pete frowned slightly , then became sad and moody .
To break the uncomfortable silence , Haney began to talk .
When he paused to moisten his throat , the stranger broke in .
Haney scowled .
Pete nodded understandingly .
Haney felt a twinge of annoyance when he heard the now familiar line again .
`` No offense intended '' , he said gently .
Haney swished the liquor in the bottom of his glass .
About halfway back Pops groped against a wall and stopped , pulled away two loosely nailed wide boards at one end , and went through .
It was a big room , empty except for a few things of Pops's at the far end -- a wooden crate on which stood the candle , a spread out blanket , and an unrolled bindle .
I took the pint bottle from my pocket and handed it over as I sat down beside him on the spread blanket .
He drank and handed it back .
He hesitated a second , looking at the bottle , before he said `` Sure-sure '' , and I reassured him .
His `` sure-sure '' was enthusiastic this time .
Charlie was waiting , leaning against a building front .
On the way I gave him the scoop .
I was reminded , amusedly , by a poem of Kenneth Patchen's called The Murder of Two Men by a Young Kid Wearing Lemon Colored Gloves , which Patchen himself read on a record against jazz background .
This was the same , except that it was the murder of one man by two men and neither of us was wearing gloves .
The second bottle passed a few times .
About halfway through the second bottle , Charlie looked at me across Pops , who was sitting between us and asked `` Now '' ? ?
There was a sound like the one you produce by flicking a watermelon with your finger , only louder , and Pops fell forward from the waist and then over sidewise .
I reached my hand toward him to put it inside his shirt to feel for a heartbeat , but Charlie said `` Wait '' ! !
`` We don't want to know whether he's dead , yet .
I dug him , I saw his point ; ;
Charlie said , `` Good boy .
We straightened Pops up and I made sure there was no trace of a heartbeat .
I nodded to Charlie .
`` How do you feel '' ? ?
`` Cool '' , I told him .
`` Nothing .
`` Take them '' , I said .
`` Right .
`` Same .
`` We can't take a chance on that .
We discussed the candle and decided the hypothetical other bum would have left it burning to light his way to the window and because he'd have no reason to blow it out .
We went once more over every point , then triple-checked .
An hour later we were back in my unpadded pad , killing what had been left of the second pint .
We planned ahead only one step , a rendezvous for tomorrow when we could swap notes .
I was dead tired and slept soundly , as far as I know dreamlessly .
We met at Maxine's and decided we were set to stay as long as it took , into or even through the evening , to talk things out .
I talked first , telling him everything I knew about Seaton and his house and domestic arrangements .
It didn't take us as long as we'd thought it might ; ;
`` Wait a minute , Charlie '' , I said .
He sighed .
`` Solid '' , I said .
He grinned and clapped me on the shoulder .
Now that he knew himself to be self he was free to grok ever closer to his brothers , merge without let .
Mike remained in trance ; ;
Jubal's conversations coming and going -- Jubal's words troubled him most ; ;
`` Thou art God '' .
Before midnight he speeded his heart , resumed normal breathing , ran down his check list , uncurled and sat up .
He felt a puppyish need for company as strong as his earlier necessity for quiet .
`` Oh .
`` I feel fine ! !
`` Asleep .
`` Oh '' .
`` I ought to be asleep , too , but I felt like a snack .
`` Sure , I'm hungry '' ! !
`` Come on , there's some cold chicken and we'll see what else '' .
`` A fine idea '' , Mike agreed .
`` Warm enough to swim -- real Indian summer .
`` Don't bother '' , Mike answered .
In the meantime he was pleased with the warm night and the still more pleasing company of his water brother .
`` Okay , take the tray .
`` Fine '' .
`` Mike , there's Mars .
`` It is Mars '' .
`` Mike ? ?
He hesitated ; ;
`` ' Taught to grow ' '' ? ?
He hesitated .
Yes , I heard it in the news '' .
Mike had not heard it ; ;
`` You knew him '' ? ?
`` Yes .
`` Oh , dear ! !
`` At first I was homesick '' , he answered .
`` Mike darling '' -- They kissed , and went on kissing .
Presently his water brother said breathlessly .
`` You are all right , my brother '' ? ?
`` Yes .
A long time later , by cosmic clock , she said , `` Mike ? ?
`` I know .
`` Well I've been ready a long time -- goodness , we all have , but never mind , dear ; ;
As they merged , grokking together , Mike said softly and triumphantly : `` Thou art God '' .
Her answer was not in words .
`` We grok God '' .
25 .
On Mars humans were building pressure domes for the male and female party that would arrive by next ship .
The Old Ones neither helped nor hindered this plan ; ;
A colossal campaign opened to sell more sexual organs of plants and Mrs. Joseph ( `` Shadow of Greatness '' ) Douglas was quoted as saying : `` I would no more sit down without flowers on my table than without serviettes '' .
The President of the United States proclaimed the first Sunday in November as `` National Grandmothers' Day '' and urged America to say it with flowers .
L'Unita and Hoy published identical denunciations of Short's elevation , l'Osservatore Romano and the Christian Science Monitor ignored it , Times of India snickered at it , and the Manchester Guardian simply reported it -- the Fosterites in England were few but extremely militant .
Digby was not pleased with his promotion .
Digby calmed down , but made one request .
Foster shook his halo .
`` You mean this punk can brush me aside and I've got to hold still for it '' ? ?
`` I held still for the same thing , didn't I ? ?
Digby heaved a deep ethereal sigh .
Jubal did not hear of Digby's disappearance when it was announced , and , when he did , while he had a fleeting suspicion , he dismissed it ; ;
His household had gone through an upset .
Jubal couldn't reconstruct the crime from the way the girls behaved because patterns kept shifting -- ABC vs D , then BCD vs A or AB vs CD , or AD vs CB , through all ways that four women can gang up on each other .
This continued most of the week following that ill-starred trip to church , during which period Mike stayed in his room and usually in a trance so deep that Jubal would have pronounced him dead had he not seen it before .
The expense and time involved are astronomical .
`` But the third ship came back several years ago and reported ''
`` That it had found a planet on which human beings could live and which was already inhabited by sentient beings '' ! !
Macneff stopped pacing to stare at Hal with his pale blue eyes .
`` How did you know '' ? ?
`` Forgive me , Sandalphon '' , said Hal .
Macneff smiled and said , `` I am glad that your scriptural lessons have left such an impression '' .
How could they not ? ?
Swiftly , came the revulsion , the protest .
`` Please pardon me again , Sandalphon '' , said Hal .
`` No '' , said Macneff .
`` You need a linguist '' ? ?
`` The ship is huge '' , said Macneff , `` but the number of military men and specialists we are taking limits the linguists to one .
Hal waited : Macneff paced some more , frowning .
`` A thousand pardons '' , said Hal .
`` No problem at all '' , said Macneff .
Hal gasped , and he said , `` A divorce '' ? ?
Macneff raised his hands apologetically and said , `` You are horrified , of course .
`` I volunteer '' , said Hal .
Six months later , Hal Yarrow stood in the observation dome of the Gabriel and watched the ball of Earth dwindle above him .
Southern China , all of southeast Asia , southern India and Ceylon , these states of the Malay Federation spoke Bazaar .
Siberia spoke Icelandic .
His mind turned the globe swiftly for him , and he visualized Africa , which used Swahili south of the Sahara Sea .
Hal saw in his mind the rest of Earth : Iceland , Greenland , the Caribbean Islands , and the eastern half of South America .
Then there was North America , where American was the native speech of all except the twenty descendants of French-Canadians living on the Hudson Bay Preserve .
Hal knew that when that side of Earth rotated into the night zone , Sigmen City would blaze out into space .
Hal felt sorry for Mary ; ;
Yet , he told himself , this was the best way .
The gapt .
`` Hal Yarrow '' ! !
And , slowly , feeling himself icy yet burning , Hal turned .
There was the squat loose-jowled man , smiling lopsidedly up at him .
`` My beloved ward , my perennial gadfly '' , said the whining voice .
`` Sigmen love you , too , my guardian '' , said Hal , choking .
5
Many years later , the photon-counting apparatus in the nose of the ship would determine that the star was close enough to actuate deceleration .
Hal Yarrow was among the last to go into the suspensor and among the first to come out .
This discovery caused Hal anxiety .
For one thing , the organs of speech of the Ozagen natives differed somewhat from Earthmen's ; ;
Another obstacle was the grammatical construction of Siddo .
All the other parts of speech : nouns , pronouns , adjectives , adverbs , and conjunctions operated under the same system as the verbs .
This was not , for the Angel , just a matter of running through a logical or deductive chain , or deciding on some action from some already established premise .
What Gabriel was being asked to do now , however , was to re-examine all his basic assumptions , make value-judgments on them , and give them new and different powers in his mind to govern his motives .
Being reasonably sure of the reason for the long pause , however , did not make it seem any less long to Jack .
There was nothing he could do but wait .
At last Gabriel spoke .
`` We misjudged you '' , he said slowly .
`` For now , it is clear that we were in the wrong .
`` I did not perceive this essential distinction either , First-Born '' , Hesperus said at once , `` I was only practicing a concept that Jack taught me , called a deal '' .
`` Nevertheless , you were its agent .
`` It's a kind of agreement in which each party gives something to the other '' , Jack said .
`` Strange '' , Gabriel said .
`` Hesperus and Lucifer '' , Jack said , `` show that we do '' .
Another pause ; ;
`` Then it is a matter of pleasure ; ;
This explained a great deal .
`` But this simply requires that they behave in accordance with the dictates of their own natures , and respect yours in turn .
Jack felt a wave of complete elation , but in a second it had vanished without a trace .
The simple treaty principle that Gabriel was asking him to ratify , in short , was nothing less than total trust .
Nothing less would serve .
Furthermore , even the highly trained law clerk who was a part of Jack's total make-up could not understand how the principle could ever be codified .
Yet there was some precedent for it .
Besides , agreements `` in principle '' , with the petty details to be thrashed out later , were commonplace in diplomatic history .
Suppose that this one were to work ? ?
It was worth trying .
He turned back to the screens , the crucial , conclusive phrase on his lips .
For a moment he could make no sense at all of what he saw .
`` Hesperus ! !
`` Your brothers have been found .
`` Where ? ?
`` You can't see them yet , Jack .
Jack scanned the skies , the boards , and the skies again .
Then the skiff hove into sight , just a dot of light at first against the roiling blackness and crimson streaks of the Coal Sack .
It was a startling , almost numenous sight ; ;
The skiff was not heading for the nursery , however .
Fuming , helpless , he watched them pass him .
But where was it going ? ?
There was only one possible answer , but Jack's horrified mind refused to believe it until he had fed the radar plots of the skiff's course into the computer .
The skiff was headed for the very center of the nebula -- toward that place which , Jack knew now , could hold nothing less important than the very core of the Angel's life and religion .
It was clear that Langer had at last found a way to attract the Angel's attention .
It was equally clear that as of this moment , the treaty was off .
Stern chase 10
But it didn't matter now whether he meant to invade the Holy of Holies , or was simply headed in that direction by accident .
Jack crawled under the boards and restored the six feet of lead line he had excised from the Nernst generator switch .
He had to have fusion power to catch up with the skiff , and he had to have it fast .
`` Hesperus '' ? ?
`` Receiving '' .
`` I'm going to turn my generator back on , as I promised to do .
`` Nobody else can live in your hearth while I am in it '' , Hesperus said promptly .
With a short-lived sigh of relief , Jack plugged the fuses back in and threw the switch .
Of course .
But since he had failed to anticipate it , he lost the five minutes anyhow , in plotting an intercept orbit .
`` Hesperus , don't use this t-tau vector trick of yours , please .
Ryan hefted his bulk up and supported it on one elbow .
`` Nothing wrong with me that couldn't be cured '' , Nogol said .
`` Ekstrohm '' ? ?
`` Okay '' .
`` Well , let's take a ground-level look at the country around here '' .
The facsiport rolled open on the landscape .
This fiery swath was actually only a belt of minor planets , almost like the asteroid belt in the original Solar System .
`` How can a planet with so many neighbors be so lonely '' ? ?
`` Some can be lonely in a crowd '' , Nogol said elaborately .
`` What will we need outside , Ryan '' ? ?
`` No helmets '' , the captain answered .
`` Ryan , look over there '' , Nogol said .
`` I think they're dead '' , Ekstrohm interjected quietly .
`` Ekstrohm , you and I will have a look '' , Ryan said .
`` Easy '' , Nogol confirmed .
`` I'm not worried about you mis-reading the dials , Nogol , just about a lug like you reading them at all .
`` But I'm ambidextrous '' .
Ryan told him what he could do then .
Ekstrohm smiled , and followed the captain through the airlock with only a glance at the lapel gauge on his coverall .
Actually , the types of infection that could attack a warm-blooded mammal were not infinite , and over the course of the last few hundred years adequate defenses had been found for all basic categories .
They ignored the ladder down to the planet surface and , with only a glance at the seismological gauge to judge surface resistance , dropped to the ground .
It was day , but in the thin atmosphere contrasts were sharp between light and shadow .
Ekstrohm nudged it with a boot .
`` Uh-huh '' , Ryan admitted .
The surveyor looked sidewise at the captain .
Ryan nudged it with his toe , following Ekstrohm's example .
`` No , it isn't '' , Ekstrohm said .
`` I think we'd better let it lay until we get a clearer picture of the ecological setup around here .
`` It looks like we did , when we made blastdown '' .
`` But what about our landing was lethal to the creatures '' ? ?
`` Radiation '' ? ?
`` I don't know about that .
`` Then maybe it was the shockwave we set up .
`` Maybe '' , the captain admitted .
`` And that is '' ? ?
`` Suppose it was not us that killed these aliens .
Ekstrohm lay in his bunk and thought , the camp is quiet .
The Earthmen made camp outside the spaceship .
The camp was a cluster of aluminum bubbles , ringed with a spy web to alert the Earthmen to the approach of any being .
Each man had a bubble to himself , privacy after the long period of enforced intimacy on board the ship .
Ekstrohm lay in his bunk and listened to the sounds of the night on Yancey-6 138 .
The bunk he lay on was much more uncomfortable than the acceleration couches on board .
Ekstrohm was not asleep .
Now there could be an end to pretending .
He threw off the light blanket and swung his feet off the bunk , to the floor .
There was no longer any need to hide .
He no longer had to lie in his bunk all night , his eyes closed , pretending to sleep .
It was small comfort for insomnia .
Ekstrohm never slept .
Never at all .
Naturally , he couldn't let his shipmates know this .
Over the years , he had had buddies in space in whom he thought he could confide .
Ekstrohm had to hide his secret .
In a camp , instead of shipboard , hiding the secret was easier .
Ekstrohm picked up a lightweight no-back from the ship's library , a book by Bloch , the famous twentieth century expert on sex .
On impulse , he flipped up the heat control on his coverall and slid back the hatch of the bubble .
Ekstrohm walked through the alien glass and looked up at the unfamiliar constellations , smelling the frozen sterility of the thin air .
Behind him , his mates stirred without waking .
Ekstrohm was startled in the morning by a banging on the hatch of his bubble .
The angry burnt-red face of Ryan greeted him .
`` Do with what '' ? ?
`` The dead beasties .
`` What are you talking about , Ryan ? ?
`` I don't know .
`` Gone '' ? ?
Ekstrohm shouldered his way outside and scanned the veldt .
There was no ring of animal corpses .
`` I'll be damned '' , Ekstrohm said .
`` You are right now , buddy .
`` Where do you get off , Ryan '' ? ?
`` Listen , Ekstrohm , I want to give you the benefit of every doubt .
`` No '' , Ekstrohm said , `` No , I didn't know that '' .
`` You've been hiding things from me and Nogol every jump we've made with you .
`` What could I do with your lousy dead bodies ? ?
`` All I know is that you were outside the bubbles last night , and you were the only sentient being who came in or out of our alarm web .
It was not a new experience to Ekstrohm .
`` Ryan , there are other explanations for the disappearance of the bodies .
Ryan shook his head .
Ekstrohm scowled .
`` Don't try anything violent , Stormy .
`` I wasn't planning on jumping you .
She lived and was given a name .
One of the babies died in the initial transferral but of Helva's `` class '' , seventeen thrived in the metal shells .
However , no diagram of her brain patterns , no early I.Q. tests recorded certain essential facts about Helva that Central must eventually learn .
So , for happy years , Helva scooted around in her shell with her classmates , playing such games as Stall , Power-Seek , studying her lessons in trajectory , propulsion techniques , computation , logistics , mental hygiene , basic alien psychology , philology , space history , law , traffic , codes : all the et ceteras that eventually became compounded into a reasoning , logical , informed citizen .
Helva's civilization was not without busy , do-good associations , exploring possible inhumanities to terrestrial as well as extraterrestrial citizens .
Helva's class was doing Fine Arts , a selective subject in her crowded program .
`` Why , what a lovely voice you have '' , said one of the female visitors .
Helva `` looked '' up and caught a fascinating panorama of regular , dirty craters on a flaky pink surface .
`` Yes , we have quite a few years of voice training , madam '' , remarked Helva calmly .
Although this was the first time that Helva had seen unshelled people , she took this experience calmly .
`` I meant that you have a nice singing voice dear '' , the lady amended .
`` Thank you .
`` Work '' ? ?
`` I am currently reproducing the Last Supper on the head of a screw '' .
`` No , I say '' , the lady twittered .
Helva turned her vision back to magnification and surveyed her copy critically .
`` Of course , some of my color values do not match the old Master's and the perspective is faulty but I believe it to be a fair copy '' .
The lady's eyes , unmagnified , bugged out .
`` Oh , I forget '' , and Helva's voice was really contrite .
The monitor of this discourse grinned with pride and amusement as Helva's tone indicated pity for the unfortunate .
`` Here , this will help '' , suggested Helva , substituting a magnifying device in one extension and holding it over the picture .
In a kind of shock , the ladies and gentlemen of the committee bent to observe the incredibly copied and brilliantly executed Last Supper on the head of a screw .
`` Well '' , remarked one gentleman who had been forced to accompany his wife , `` the good Lord can eat where angels fear to tread '' .
`` Are you referring , sir '' , asked Helva politely , `` to the Dark Age discussions of the number of angels who could stand on the head of a pin '' ? ?
`` I had that in mind '' .
`` If you substitute ' atom ' for ' angel ' , the problem is not insoluble , given the metallic content of the pin in question '' .
`` Which you are programed to compute '' ? ?
`` Of course '' .
`` Did they remember to program a sense of humor , as well , young lady '' ? ?
`` We are directed to develop a sense of proportion , sir , which contributes the same effect '' .
The good man chortled appreciatively and decided the trip was worth his time .
If the investigation committee spent months digesting the thoughtful food served them at the Laboratory School , they left Helva with a morsel as well .
`` Singing '' as applicable to herself required research .
She approached the problem by investigating the methods of sound reproduction through the centuries , human and instrumental .
If the authorities remarked on her curious avocation , they did so among themselves .
On the anniversary of her sixteenth year in her shell , Helva was unconditionally graduated and installed in her ship , the Aj .
Her first actual flight , for she and her kind had made mock flights on dummy panels since she was eight , showed her complete mastery of the techniques of her profession .
There were nine qualified scouts sitting around collecting base pay the day Helva was commissioned .
`` Hello , anyone at home '' ? ?
`` Of course '' , replied Helva logically , activating her outside scanners .
`` All you have to do is ask '' , he retorted hopefully .
`` No one has come .
Even to herself Helva sounded a little self-pitying but the truth was she was lonely , sitting on the darkened field .
`` No directives from Central is scarcely a cause for regret , but there happen to be eight other guys biting their fingernails to the quick just waiting for an invitation to board you , you beautiful thing '' .
It would have killed you in the cabin .
Mercer stammered , not knowing what B'dikkat meant , and the two-nosed man answered for him , `` I think he has a nice baby head , but it isn't big enough for you to take yet '' .
Mercer never noticed the needle touch his arm .
B'dikkat had turned to the next knot of people when the super-condamine hit Mercer .
He tried to run after B'dikkat , to hug the lead spacesuit , to tell B'dikkat that he loved him .
The many-bodied girl lay near him .
`` Isn't it wonderful ? ?
The woman covered with growing hands came and sat beside them .
The two women babbled and crooned at him .
With one corner of his mind he knew that they were saying nothing , just expressing the euphoria of a drug so powerful that the known universe had forbidden it .
A painful stab hit him in the abdomen .
He forced himself to be deliberate .
The Lady Da forced the foremost of her bodies in an upright position .
Mercer smiled at her through his happiness .
`` Of course you can .
With this he felt his lips thicken and his mind go slack .
B'dikkat was sterilizing his knives .
Mercer wondered how long the super-condamine had lasted him .
At last he noticed a return of the inwardness of pain .
The pains themselves had not changed ; ;
He knew all the events which could take place on Shayol .
He tried to ask the Lady Da how long they had had the drug , and how much longer they would have to wait before they had it again .
The half-man lay on the ground , arteries pulsating prettily behind the half-transparent film which protected his abdominal cavity .
Mercer squeezed the man's shoulder .
The half-man woke , recognized Mercer and gave him a healthily sleepy grin .
`` ' A good morrow to you , my boy .
`` You mean a game with cards '' ? ?
`` No '' , said the half-man , `` a sort of eye-machine with real people doing the figures '' .
`` I never saw that '' , said Mercer , `` but I '' --
`` But you want to ask me when B'dikkat is going to come back with the needle '' .
`` Yes '' , said Mercer , a little ashamed of his obviousness .
`` Soon '' , said the half-man .
`` What's a ' scene ' '' ? ?
The half-man laughed with something close to real humor .
Mercer did not know what an `` Earth-week '' was , since he had not been a well-read man before his conviction , but he got nothing more from the half-man at that time .
When Mercer looked on helplessly , the half-man twisted over on his side , his pink dusty back turned to Mercer , and wept hoarsely and quietly to himself .
Mercer himself could not tell how long it was before B'dikkat came back .
Once again B'dikkat moved among them like a father ; ;
When B'dikkat cut the head from Mercer's thigh , he felt the knife grinding against the cartilage which held the head to his own body .
The next time it was two legs growing from his chest .
Then there had been another head beside his own .
Or was that after the torso and legs , waist to toe-tips , of the little girl which had grown from his side ? ?
He forgot the order .
He did not count time .
Lady Da smiled at him often , but there was no love in this place .
She found this immensely comforting , even though Mercer did not make much sense out of it .
Thus events occurred , and victims changed in appearance , and new ones arrived .
Finally , Mercer did manage to follow B'dikkat to the door of the cabin .
B'dikkat grudgingly agreed , but he did not come out of the doorway .
`` Standard years -- eighty-four years , seven months , three days , two hours , eleven and one half minutes .
Mercer turned away .
The secret little corner of his mind , which stayed sane through happiness and pain , made him wonder about B'dikkat .
He remembered the last time he had eaten -- actual eggs from an actual pan .
He staggered back to the group .
4 ,
Sometimes the bubbling sound of geysers came faintly across the plain to the herd of men ; ;
`` People never live forever '' .
Her statement was a hope , not a truth in which they could believe .
Far long ago , some other prisoner than one of these had tried to write a letter .
The letter , scraped on stone , had been a message home .
Dan Morgan told himself he would forget Ann Turner .
But all of this was rationalization .
The best antidote for the bitterness and disappointment that poisoned him was hard work .
He had plenty of work to do .
He had no idea how much time Budd would give him .
When , in late afternoon on the last day in June , he saw two people top the ridge to the south and walk toward the house , he quit work immediately and strode to his rifle .
He cleaned his shovel , left it against the fence , picked up his Winchester , and started downstream .
Reaching the house ahead of them , he waited with his Winchester in his hands .
Morgan hesitated , thinking that if this was a trick , it was a good one .
Morgan jerked his head toward the front door .
She didn't move or say anything .
Her blond hair was frowzy , her dress torn in several places , and her shoes were so completely worn out that they were practically no protection .
He picked her up , sliding one hand under her shoulders , the other under her knees , and carried her into the house .
He put her down on the couch , and going into the kitchen , saw that the boy had dropped into a chair beside the table .
Morgan filled the dipper from the water bucket on the shelf , went back into the front room , lifted the girl's head , and held the edge of the dipper to her mouth .
He stood looking down at her for a moment , wondering what could have reduced her to this condition .
The girl dropped off to sleep .
`` Who are you and what happened to you '' ? ?
`` I'm Billy Jones '' , the boy answered .
`` What are you doing here '' ? ?
`` Are we in Wyoming '' ? ?
Morgan nodded .
Jones sighed as if relieved .
`` You mean you dragged your wife all over hell's half-acre looking for work '' ? ?
`` We didn't want town work '' , Jones said .
`` This is a mighty empty country '' , Morgan said .
`` Then we're lucky we got here .
`` Morgan .
He was silent a moment , thinking he could use a man this time of year , and if the girl could cook , it would give him more time in the meadows , but he knew nothing about the couple .
There was more to this than Jones had told him .
`` I could use some help '' , Morgan said finally , `` but I can't afford to pay you anything .
`` We'll work for our keep '' , the boy said eagerly .
`` I'll see '' , Morgan said .
`` I know '' , Jones said dejectedly .
Morgan filled the fire box with wood again , then started supper and set the table .
She rubbed her eyes and stretched , then sat up , her hands going to her hair .
`` I'm Dan Morgan .
`` Oh '' .
`` I don't have many strays coming to my front door '' , he said .
`` Of course '' .
She got to her feet , staggered , and almost fell .
`` And hungry '' , he said .
`` Not much of a meal '' ? ?
He told himself he had never seen two people eat so much .
The grateful way she looked at Morgan made him ashamed of himself .
Morgan laughed .
`` We're not drunkards '' , she said .
She helped him with the dishes , then he brought more water in from the spring before it got dark .
`` No , she'll be all right '' , Jones said quickly .
`` We'll see '' , Morgan said .
`` Could you find me a needle and thread '' ? ?
He nodded and , going into the bedroom , brought a needle , thread , and scissors .
`` You're awfully kind '' , the girl said .
`` It's all right '' , he said .
Jones followed him into the front room , closing the door behind him .
He stopped , embarrassed , and Morgan said , `` I understand that , but I don't savvy why you'd go off and leave your jobs in the first place '' .
`` We got fired '' , Jones said .
They were a pair of lost , whipped kids , Morgan thought as he went to bed .
Gavin paused wearily .
`` You can't make me go '' .
Gavin sank down again into his chair and began to rock .
Gavin's lips moved so that Clayton had to stoop to catch the words .
He wiped his lips with a sleeve , then stared at Clayton in a childish kind of wonder .
`` Yes '' .
`` You don't hate me any more '' ? ?
Clayton choked , shook his head , murmuring , `` No '' .
`` Come here '' .
`` I'll go , Clay '' .
Clayton freed himself from the embrace and stepped back .
He burst from the hot confinement of the room into the cold night air .
Gavin stood on the porch , a thin figure .
`` Clay '' , he said , `` where are we goin '' ? ?
`` To a ranch in the valley .
`` California '' .
`` Yes , like a father and son '' .
`` I made you what you are '' , Gavin whispered .
`` Yes , Gavin , you did '' .
He approached the horse and laid a hand on the stallion's quivering neck .
`` It will grow again -- in California '' .
`` I loved this valley '' , he whispered huskily .
Clayton swung into the saddle and whacked the stallion's rump .
Thirty-five
They passed ranches that were framed dark gray against the black hills .
They had been seen as soon as they left the ranch , picked out of the darkness by the weary though watchful eyes of two men posted a few hundred yards away in the windless shelter of the trees .
The men in Pettigrew's were tired from a night's drinking , their faces red and baggy .
`` Keep out of this '' , Purvis snarled .
Joe Purvis was thinking back many years .
He remembered Clayton's mocking smile in the saloon when he had asked him what he would do if they brought their cattle to water .
He turned to Lester .
Lester's hand fluttered to Cabot's shoulder .
`` He killed Tom -- do you understand that '' ? ?
Thirty-six
The mare began to tire and Clayton felt the spray of snow from the hoofs of Gavin's stallion .
Gavin's face was bloodless with excitement .
California is too far , he thought .
The sentry was not dead .
Fiske joined them , unsteady on his feet .
`` I never felt better in my life '' , Fiske blustered .
He turned to Susan and kissed her on the cheek .
Mike silenced them .
`` We'll grab horses '' , Dean said .
Mike debated it , trying to decide whether Fiske was strong enough to ride .
The guerrilla bivouac remained silent .
About a dozen animals were held inside the stockade , as best Mike could make out in the moonlight .
He handed the guard's rifle to Fiske .
He added , `` If this doesn't work out , the three of you barricade yourself in the house and talk terms with them '' .
He handed the bayonet to Dean and kept the pistol .
Mike turned away .
Dean turned from Susan and took Julia Fortune in his arms .
Mike only said , `` Later '' .
`` Be careful , McLish '' ! !
`` The way you were careful '' ? ?
He kept going .
He handed the bayonet to Dean and kept the pistol .
Holding the pistol concealed , he walked to the rear wall of the stockade .
A voice spoke near-at-hand .
Just me '' , Mike said .
He located his man .
Mike struck with the muzzle of the pistol .
Mike , off balance , managed to bat the muzzle away a moment before it exploded .
The explosion of the rifle had crashed against the walls of the stockade and the deep echoes were still rolling in the hills .
Dean came rushing up .
`` No , but the fat's in the fire '' ! !
The sentry's saddled horse stood picketed nearby , having been kept handy in case of need .
Mike took the bayonet from Dean's hand and slashed the picket line .
Dean resisted Mike's attempt to push him toward the horse .
`` Dammit '' ! !
Dean still hesitated , but Mike lifted him almost bodily into the saddle and thrust the reins in his hand .
`` No telling how good this horse is '' , Mike panted .
Dean leaned from the saddle and gave him a mighty whack on the back .
Then he was on his way at a gallop .
The guerrillas were swarming from their bivouac at the west end of the enclosure .
`` Apaches '' ! !
He scuttled in shadow along the east wall of the stockade and then followed the south wall until he was at the rear of the two frame buildings .
His shout had been taken up and repeated .
Durkin and Calhoun came running from the post .
Mike made a dash to the rear of the frame buildings .
Mike crawled to the door and peered in .
Mike seized a blanket from a pallet in a corner , spread it on the floor and used it to form a bag in which he placed his booty .
Shouldering the load he peered from the door .
He looked at the looming hoods of the supply wagons , struck by a new inspiration .
He shouldered the blanket again , backed off , and tossed the lantern with its open wick beneath the wagon .
Powder flame gushed beneath the wagon .
A bullet tore the earth from beneath his foot when he was a stride or two from safety .
Guerrillas were racing toward him .
Susan bounced to her feet and slammed the door .
Mike rolled to Susan , grasped her around the knees , dragging her off her feet .
He peered from a loophole .
The wagons were burning fiercely .
The guerrillas realized they faced a new problem .
`` Get a bucket line going '' ! !
The guerrillas began a frantic search for pails in which to bring water from the spring .
`` Drag the wagons to the spring '' ! !
One of the wagons erupted a massive pillar of flame .
The glow of the fire reached through the openings in the windows , giving light enough to examine Mike's wound .
Mike tested the leg and found that he was able to hobble around on it .
`` So it wasn't the earthquake that made him return to his village '' ! !
`` No .
Reverend Jason , looking worried , hurried toward us .
`` Dirion found a large war party south of us .
For a second , engages , cooks , voyageurs appeared struck dumb .
`` That was a terrible thing to do '' , I said to Oso .
Oso gave me an unruffled look .
`` But that was war '' , I said .
`` You're wrong , Matt .
I remember being told it would happen so fast people would think it took place overnight .
`` That's why this company's important .
As I dug in behind one of the bales we were using as protection , I grudgingly found myself agreeing with Oso's logic , especially when I imagined what would have happened to Missy if Old Knife's large party of screeching warriors had overrun our company .
For , unlike the Sioux and the Crows , the Aricaras are not great horsemen , nor are they aggressive like the savage Blackfeet .
Surprisingly , he had told the others what he had done .
`` I think Montero did right '' , Amy said firmly .
Reverend Jason was understandably bitter .
But Oso replied calmly , `` Trouble ain't easy to dodge out in this country , rev'rend '' .
28 .
The pony herd was the one flaw in our defense ; ;
The cooks had prepared one of the best meals we'd had in a long time , and on Montero's orders had baked enough bread to last the day .
It was a relief when they finally came .
They poured through the opening in the valley , then spread out in a long line to come at us , brandishing their lances and filling the morning with their spine-chilling scalp cry .
`` Oso '' , Montero called `` I'll get Gray Eyes '' .
`` That'll be a pleasure to see '' , the big black murmured as he stared down the barrel of his rifle .
`` Hold your fire '' , Montero was shouting .
I could see them in my sights .
My God , how long is he going to wait , I thought .
Montero's rifle cracked .
I squeezed the trigger .
`` If you're goin' to kill 'em -- ! !
What else he said was lost in the rattle of gunfire on all sides .
`` Lead up ! !
Far up the valley I could see the Rees circling and reorganizing .
`` For Christ's sake , don't waste your powder on one of 'em '' ! !
The sharp cries at the end of the valley were faint .
`` Gray Eyes is back , , Montero said .
The war captain had been badly wounded and was fighting to hold his seat .
I forgot to aim .
The ponies were almost uncontrollable .
Although my shot killed his horse , he rolled off the bale on top of me .
The Aricaras made one last desperate charge .
None of them reached our walls again .
She was carrying a quirt , and she started to raise it , then let it fall again and dangle from her wrist .
`` I saw your fire '' , she said , speaking slowly , making an effort to control her anger .
`` All right '' , Wilson said quickly .
He was losing patience again .
`` I'm not advising you '' , she said .
He was taken aback .
`` There's some mistake '' , he said finally .
She showed her surprise by tightening the reins and moving the gelding around so that she could get a better look at his face .
`` You own this place '' ? ?
`` From a man in St. Louis '' , Wilson said .
The girl laughed .
Wilson didn't say anything .
`` Carwood didn't tell you that '' , she said .
`` No '' , Wilson said .
`` Never mind '' , she said sternly .
It was meant to insult him , and didn't quite succeed .
He meant to say more , but he never got the chance .
She came down against him , and he tried to break her fall .
`` I ought to '' -- he said .
`` She isn't , mister '' .
The voice came from behind him , and Wilson turned .
`` She's not a man , mister '' , he said .
`` Put the rifle down , Joseph '' , the girl said .
The half-breed eased the Winchester down and rested it across his lap .
The girl tapped the quirt impatiently against her knee and glared at him .
`` I said go home , Joseph .
The half-breed didn't answer this time .
Wilson brushed the dust from his coat .
`` He works for my father '' , the girl said , and then seemed to change her mind .
`` Not now '' , Wilson said .
She wiped it off with the sleeve of her coat .
`` I'll bet that's as close as you've been to a man since you were a baby '' , Wilson said .
He saw her hand start to work down the leather thong toward the handle of the quirt , and he grabbed her wrist .
She brought up her free hand to hit him , but this time he was quicker .
They weren't sleeping , of course , but they thought they were doing him a favor by pretending .
`` Go to sleep '' , he said .
He found the pan where he had dropped it and carried it back down to the stream .
He scrubbed absent-mindedly at the pans and reflected on how things had turned out .
The land wasn't all Wilson had expected of it .
In the last analysis , though , Wilson had little cause to complain .
2
Wilson backed the team into the traces , and wished they weren't going to town at all .
He finished with the team and filled his pipe and stood looking about him .
The first part of the road was steep , but it leveled off after the second bend and curled gradually into the valley .
The town was about what Wilson expected : one main street with its rows of false-fronted buildings , a water tower , a few warehouses , a single hotel ; ;
Such was my state of mind that I did not question the possibility of this ; ;
I went to the hall in the afternoons only , on these preliminary matters .
Having nothing else to do except wait for my forms to be processed , I gave myself over to speculations concerning the hall itself .
I felt strongly attached to the hall , however , and hardly a day passed when I did not go to look at it from a distance .
I returned to the hall , despite my dislike for the clerk .
The flat , hard cap was small , but he thrust it to the back of his head .
`` Tie him up '' .
`` Hell with it '' .
Before they could guess his intention Rankin stepped forward and swung the guard's own gun against the uncovered head , hard .
Barton said harshly , `` Why did you do that '' ? ?
Rankin sneered at him .
Barton caught the lighter man's shoulder and swung him around .
`` Let's get one thing straight , you and me .
Fred Rankin looked at him .
`` Come on .
They filed out through the guard-room door , into the paved square .
Two men were on duty inside , playing pinochle , relaxed .
`` What are you doing out of the block '' ? ?
`` It's Curtiss '' , he said , naming the man Rankin had hit .
They stared at him .
`` What's wrong with him '' ? ?
`` He's having some kind of a fit '' .
The sergeant turned to the door .
`` One sound and you're dead '' .
The sergeant froze .
They were free .
No one hurried .
The only thing which would have attracted attention was that two wore the uniform of prison guards , three the striped suits of convicts .
Five miles .
In a small grove against the river they halted , turning deep into the protection of the trees .
Clyde Miller was crying softly to himself , shedding his striped suit and fumbling into the nondescript butternut pants , the worn brown shirt .
`` I won't even try to thank you '' .
The ex-prison guard was embarrassed .
Barton turned away , his eyes falling upon Rankin beside his horse .
`` Good luck '' .
The murderer lifted his head .
`` You aren't one of us .
`` I got no place to go '' .
Barton hesitated .
`` Your choice '' , he said briefly , and turned to Kid Boyd .
Then Barton touched Carl Dill's arm and moved off , up the river bank .
They squatted on their heels in the deep mud and Dill found a cigar in his breast pocket , passing it over silently .
Mitchell Barton drew in the fragrance deeply , letting the smoke lie warm and soothing in his throat for a moment before he exhaled .
Through the gloom he could not see the man beside him clearly but he knew him thoroughly .
Carl Dill was neither a rancher nor a valley man .
The one thing they had in common was their hatred .
He said now , `` I've got the perfect headquarters set up .
Mitch Barton knew the place .
`` The road's washed badly '' , said Dill , `` but there's a trail you can get over with a horse .
Barton nodded .
`` As mad as ever .
Barton waited for a long moment , then asked the question which lay always uppermost in his mind .
`` My boy .
Dill was silent as if he hated to answer , and Barton had a cold , sick feeling of apprehension .
`` He's in Morgan's Ferry '' .
Barton half-straightened in surprise .
`` What's he doing there '' ? ?
Again Dill hesitated .
`` Dealing faro ? ?
`` Your sister-in-law has the faro bank in Cap Ayres' saloon '' .
Barton cursed under his breath .
`` Everyone .
Barton stood up .
Dill had come up also .
`` If you hadn't I'd have killed you '' .
Dill's voice tightened .
`` The hell you do '' .
`` I can't leave him there .
Chapter two
It reached Donald Kruger in his massive home in Burlingame .
For everyone involved knew that the whole valley was a powder keg , and Mitchell Barton the fuse which could send it into explosive violence .
Creighton Hague sat in his office above the Ione pit .
The gravel was the bed of an ancient river , buckled in some prehistoric upheaval of earth .
The monitors ran twenty-four hours each day .
He was a big man , wearing a neat flannel shirt against the cold foothill air .
He was proud of his accomplishments , proud of his job , proud that Donald Kruger and his associates trusted him .
No man could have reached his spot nor held it without being ruthless , and Hague had made a virtue of ruthlessness all of his life .
There came a ghost of noise at the office door and Hague swung to see Kodyke in the entrance from the outer room .
He knew nothing about the man's history .
Hague squeezed down his uneasy dislike .
`` This is Mitchell Barton .
Kodyke took the picture in a lean hand , studying it thoughtfully .
`` Dangerous '' ? ?
`` Dangerous , yes .
The gunman nodded , slipping the picture into his breast pocket , saying nothing .
Normally Hague wasted no words , but now he found himself unable to stop their flow although he knew Kodyke was aware of all he said .
If she sensed any unusual preoccupation on the part of her mother , she did not comment upon it .
After they had finished eating , Melissa took Sprite the kitten under her arm -- `` so that Auntie Grace can teach it about the whistle '' -- and climbed into the station wagon beside her mother .
When they reached their neighbor's house , Pamela said a few polite words to Grace and kissed Melissa lightly on the forehead , the impulse prompted by a stray thought -- of the type to which she was frequently subject these days -- that they might never see one another again .
As she drove , she thought about her plan .
When the station wagon drew abreast of the dusty dirt road that led up to the porch of the Culver house , Pamela turned the wheel , guiding the car to its familiar parking spot close to the house , and stopped .
On her bureau lay a small , brass ornament of simple design and faded engraving -- an object which , Pamela believed now , had been the property of her great-grandfather , Major Hiram Munroe Culver .
Slowly and thoughtfully , she slipped the ornament into the pocket of her slacks , moved down the stairs and out of the house .
Perhaps it was insane , Pamela thought .
Facing the forest now , she who had not dared to enter it before , walked between two trees at random and headed in what she believed was the direction of the pool .
The forest was open and freely welcoming , extending an enchanted hand .
Perhaps she had no reason to fear these trees that whispered their secrets above her head as she passed .
Pamela felt calm and peaceful as she walked along .
Having persisted too long in deliberate ignorance and denial of the forces that threatened her , Pamela was relieved now to admit their potency and to be taking definite steps toward grappling with them .
She did not pause to consider what she would do if her plan should fail ; ;
The forest took on an impersonal aspect .
Pamela shook her head .
In her grim pursuit of tranquillity , Pamela focused her thoughts on her husband .
Pamela was glad Jim was nowhere near .
The mountainside grew steeper and she slipped once or twice on the smooth pine needles .
Nevertheless , she continued to move upward .
Silence came into the forest -- a solid being that clapped its hand over the murmuring mouths of the birds and the whispered comfort of the trees .
She stumbled over the root of a tree that protruded maliciously above the earth .
She looked around .
She was standing in a thick grove .
The thought made Pamela shudder .
Where before had she felt or dreamt or imagined such a scene ? ?
She had to get away from here before this demoniac possession swallowed up the liquid of her eyes and sank into the fibers of her brain , depriving her of reason and sight .
She could not scream , for even if a sound could take shape within her parched mouth , who would hear , who would listen ? ?
Does the mountain listen ? ?
Pamela groped blindly .
She thrust forward through the shadows and the trees that resisted her and tried to fling her back .
Every movement she made seemed unnecessarily noisy .
Miraculously , she found exactly the right statement .
`` I want to tell you something Thomas DeMontez Lord .
`` But it don't matter a-tall '' , Lord supplied fondly .
Beaming idiotically , he pooched out his lips and attempted to kiss her .
`` You shut up ! !
Lord nodded agreeably .
`` I think you stink , Tom Lord ! !
`` Uh-huh .
He opened the door and got out .
`` Well ? ?
`` Aah , go on '' , she said .
He grinned , nodded , and walked around to the front of the car .
He went prone on his stomach , the better to pursue his examination .
He wore no gun -- a strange ommission for a peace officer in this country .
She studied him hopefully , yearningly ; ;
He was handsome , with his coal-black hair and eyes , his fine-chiseled features .
Just nothing , she told herself .
He caught her eye , came back around the car with the boot-wearer ; ;
`` Oh , cut it out , Tom '' ! !
`` This ain't your brand , maybe '' , Lord suggested .
`` I feel like getting back to town , that's what I feel like ! !
`` Might get there faster walkin' '' , Lord drawled , `` seein' as how I got a busted front spring .
`` How -- with what ? ?
`` Now , ain't it the truth '' ? ?
`` Tom ! !
`` Looky '' .
She saw it then , the distant derrick of the wildcat -- a test well in unexplored country .
`` Well , let's get going '' , she said impatiently .
`` Why , I meant what I said '' , Lord declared .
She looked at him , lips compressed .
The car lurched along at a snail's crawl , the left-front mudguard banging and scraping against the tire , occasionally scraping against the road itself .
Joyce had seen him like this once before -- more than once , actually , but on one particularly memorable occasion .
Tom had been laying for Aaron McBride for a long time , just waiting to catch him out of line .
`` So what's this all about '' ? ?
It was the wrong thing to say .
The trouble was that he had virtually had to protest .
So , `` How about it '' ? ?
`` Well , I'll tell you about that '' , Lord told him .
McBride reddened .
`` Look , Lord '' , he said hoarsely .
`` uh-huh .
McBride couldn't do either , of course .
`` I'll get around to it a little later '' , he mumbled desperately .
`` huh-uh .
It was strictly the deputy's game , but McBride had gone too far to throw in .
He flung off Lord's hand and attempted to push past him , inadvertently shoving him into a storefront .
It was practically the last move that McBride made of his own volition .
Lord slugged him in the stomach , so hard that the organ almost pressed against his spine .
But he couldn't keep up with them .
Why , he's going to kill me , he thought wildly .
Somehow more terrible than the certainty that he was about to die was the knowledge that Lord would probably not suffer for it : the murder would go unpunished .
McBride staggered into the street , flopped sprawling in the stinging dust .
He hated them too much to understand -- the people of this isolated law-unto-itself world that was Lord's world .
Donna ! !
When he regained consciousness he was in Lord's house , in the office of Doctor Lord , the deputy's deceased father .
The Brannon outfit -- known as the Slash-B because of its brand -- reached Hondo Creek before sundown .
The rest of the crew offsaddled their mounts and turned them into the remuda .
The cook , Mateo Garcia , had arrived there long before the herd .
The Maguire family was setting up a separate camp nearby .
Tom Brannon had caught up with the outfit shortly after the Maguires joined it , which had been at midday .
She wondered what had taken place in town , between him and his wife .
`` Pat , get out of that creek ! !
Even as she called to the children , Conchita let her gaze seek Tom Brannon .
It bothered her that she probably would never know .
At the moment , the three men were not saying much of anything .
He'd told Hank Maguire and Luis Hernandez about his wife's refusal to come with him and about what he now intended to do .
Finally Hernandez said , `` I could offer you advice , Tomas , but you wouldn't heed it '' .
`` Let's hear it , anyway '' .
`` Wait a little while .
`` She won't change her mind '' , Brannon said .
`` But after a time away from you .
`` A year , Luis ? ?
`` In a year she'll like living in Clayton's house too much to come back to me '' , Brannon said flatly .
`` But to take him and leave his mother behind is not good '' .
`` In my place , you'd follow such advice as you give me '' ? ?
Hernandez looked suddenly uncertain .
Brannon looked at Hank Maguire .
Hank shook his head .
Brannon shook his head .
They were silent for a little while , each looking glum .
Finally Luis Hernandez said , `` What must be , must be .
And Hank Maguire added , `` So am I , Tom '' .
`` All right '' , Brannon said , rising .
Brannon timed it so that they rode in an hour after nightfall .
There were seven of them , enough for a show of strength -- to run a bluff .
With him were Hank Maguire , Luis Hernandez , and Luis's son Pedro .
It was dark early , because of the storm .
`` Probably just stepped out '' , he said .
With Red Hogan , he rode to the Welcome Cafe .
They rode to the Rockfork House , a little farther along the opposite side of the street .
Hogan reappeared , stopped on the hotel porch , lifted a hand in signal .
`` He's finished eating '' , Hogan said .
It seemed long , at least to Tom Brannon .
`` Just come along '' , Brannon told him .
`` Now , listen '' -- Macklin began .
`` We'll talk over at your office '' .
`` Brannon , I warn you '' ! !
Hogan gripped the lawman's other arm .
`` I'll remember you '' , he said .
`` Put your gun on the desk , Marshal '' .
`` Now , hold on , damn it ; ;
Red Hogan's patience ran out .
Brannon said , `` Now the key to the lockup , Marshal '' .
`` Key '' ? ?
`` Can't you guess '' ? ?
`` Damned if I will .
They moved in on him , crowded him from all sides .
He swore , and said , `` All right .
`` Get it out '' , Brannon ordered .
Resignedly , Macklin turned to the back door .
They returned to the street , mounted their horses , rode through the rain to the big house on Houston Street .
`` Don't try it '' , Brannon told him , dismounting and starting up the steps with his men following .
He strode past the now frightened man , entered the house .
And their arrival caught John Clayton and Charles Ansley off guard .
The author of the anonymous notes seemed to be all-knowing .
The exception was an Iron Mountain settler named William Lewis .
Lewis was a man who had made a full-time job of cow stealing .
William Lewis made the rounds of all who lived near him again , that August morning after a bullet landed at his feet , and once more he accused and threatened everyone .
`` I'll be ready next time '' ! !
He had his chance the very next morning , for exactly the same thing happened again .
`` Just let me meet up with that damned bushwhackin' coward face-to-face '' ! !
He never got that chance .
An inquest was held , and after a good deal of testimony about the anonymous notes , the county coroner estimated that the shooting had been done from a distance of 300 yards .
It took some time to locate Horn .
The former scout's alibi couldn't be shaken .
`` Dead center at three hundred yards , that coroner said '' ! !
Publicly , he denied everything .
Tom Horn was soon back at work , giving his secret employers their money's worth .
Even in the very area where the shooting had been done , cattle were still disappearing .
`` Fred was mighty crude about the way he took in cattle '' his own hired man , Andy Ross , mentioned later .
On the morning of September 10 , 1895 , Powell and Ross rose at dawn and began their day's work .
Andy Ross had just started swinging an ax at his second willow when the distant blast of a rifle sounded .
`` My God , I'm shot '' ! !
Ross had no intention of searching for the assassin .
A detailed scouring of the entire area revealed nothing beyond a ledge of rocks that might have been the rifleman's hiding place .
Once again , Tom Horn was the first and most likely suspect , and he was brought in for questioning immediately .
`` Exterminatin' cow thieves is just a business proposition with me '' , he'd blandly announce .
`` Tom '' , a friend asked him once , `` how come you bushwhacked them rustlers ? ?
He had lots of friends , then as always .
`` Well '' , he explained , `` s'posin' you was a nester swingin' the long rope ? ?
`` Yeah , I can see that '' , the friend was forced to agree .
`` Sportin' '' ! !
After the first two murders , the warning notes were rarely ignored .
If you don't leave this country within 3 days , your life will be taken the same as Powell's was .
This was the message found tacked to the cabin door .
All through Albany and Laramie counties , other men were doing the same .
For three straight years , Tom Horn patrolled the southern Wyoming pastures , and how many men he killed after Lewis and Powell ( if he killed Lewis and Powell ) will never be known .
For that legend was growing explosively , Rumor was insisting he received a price of $600 a man .
One thing was certain -- his method was effective , so effective that after a time even the warning notices were often unnecessary .
`` My reputation's my stock in trade '' , Tom mentioned more than once .
He had made himself the personification of the Devil to the homesteaders .
In the cow camps , Tom Horn was regarded as a hero , as the same kind of champion he was when he entered and invariably won the local rodeos .
By 1898 , rustling losses had been driven down to the lowest level ever seen in Wyoming .
When several minutes had passed and Curt hadn't emerged from the livery stable , Brenner reentered the hotel and faced Summers across the counter .
`` I have a little job for you , Charlie .
Brenner's voice was oily , but Summers wasn't fooled .
`` What is it you want me to do , Mr. Brenner '' ? ?
Brenner shrugged carelessly .
`` It's very simple .
Vastly relieved , Summers nodded and started toward the door .
`` One thing , Summers '' , Brenner said .
Summers pulled up short , and turned around .
`` I don't know , Mr. Brenner '' , he said haltingly , beginning to get an inkling of Brenner's plans .
Brenner continued to smile , but his eyes were cold .
`` You know , Summers '' , he said thoughtfully .
`` Yes sir '' .
Curt's visit to the livery stable had been merely a precaution in case anyone should be watching .
The fact that Jess's horse had not been returned to its stall could indicate that Diane's information had been wrong , but Curt didn't interpret it this way .
From the back of the barn it was a simple matter to reach Black's house without using the street .
There was a light in Black's front room , but drawn curtains prevented any view of the interior .
Again he stood in the darkness listening , but there was only the scrape of a shod hoof on a plank floor .
There were two horses in the barn , a sway-backed dun and Jess Crouch's buckskin .
It was certain now that Jess was in the house , but also , presumably , was Stacey Black .
He studied the problem for a few seconds and thought of a means by which it might be solved .
As Curt had hoped , the house door banged open .
Curt moved over beside the door and waited .
The horse continued to snort .
Jess cursed again , and entered the barn .
`` Before you try anything '' , he said .
Jess caught his breath in surprise .
`` That's the stuff '' , Curt said .
`` Damn you , Adams '' -- Jess was beginning to recover from his initial shock .
`` Your trigger-happy brother isn't in the house .
Jess turned .
`` You're about as dumb as they come , Adams .
`` You can forget about Brenner , too '' , Curt said .
`` Arbuckle '' ? ?
`` No ? ?
Curt was holding Jess's gun in his left hand .
Apparently sensing this , and realizing that it gave him an advantage , Jess became bold .
`` Having all the guns makes you a big man , don't it , Adams ? ?
`` No '' ? ?
`` All right , Crouch ; ;
Sweat bubbled out on Jess's swarthy face .
Curt , angry enough to be a little reckless , raised his hands shoulder high .
`` Does this make it any easier , coward '' ? ?
`` I ain't drawin' against you '' , Jess said thickly .
`` No .
Jess stared at him without answering and let his hands fall to his sides .
Somewhere in the distance , a woman screamed .
`` We'll do it another way , then '' , he said harshly .
Jess's coarse features twisted in a surprised grin which was smashed out of shape by Curt's fist .
Curt managed to duck beneath the man's flailing fist , and drove home a solid left to Jess's mid-section .
Curt twisted to one side , and the tines of the fork bit into the floor .
The tines broke off under Jess's twisting , and he swung the handle in an attempt to knock Curt's brains out .
By now Curt was seeing clearly again .
The building shook , setting the lantern to swaying , and the buckskin to pitching again .
Jess didn't seem too sure himself .
Jess had had enough .
Curt was in almost as bad shape , but he wouldn't quit .
`` Tell me about Arbuckle ! !
`` It was Brenner's idea '' , Jess mumbled , dabbing at his nose .
`` You mean anyone who stood up for his rights '' , Curt said .
The buckskin bolted out of the stall .
`` Get up , Crouch .
Jess painfully got to his feet as someone rattled the door .
`` Who's in there '' ? ?
Curt opened the door , grabbed Black by the shoulder , and pulled him into the barn .
`` You're staying right here for a while .
`` Get out of here .
Jess stumbled through the door .
`` Where're you takin' me '' ? ?
`` We're going to Marshal Woods's house .
Over his shoulder he could see Max's loose grin and the Burnsides' glowering faces .
`` Sally '' , admonished her mother , `` you've got all evening to visit with Dan .
Mrs. Jackson's words recalled Dan to his lack of fitness for courting .
Dan could hear Clayton Burnside and Eben Jackson summing up their final reckoning for rental on the oxen .
Soon as the Burnsides moved on , he'd lead Rex down by the river ; ;
He stooped , picked up his ruined hat , and pursed his lips thoughtfully .
The Burnsides , now ready to roll , were purposefully deaf to his cry .
`` Nate '' ! !
`` I ain't going to fight you no more '' .
`` I know you ain't '' ! !
Sally left her choring to stand beside Dan .
At first Matilda could not believe her own eyes .
Seeing them waiting there at the foot of Emigrant Rock was so overwhelming that , for a good minute after they rounded the bend and started down the grade leading toward them , Matilda could not speak at all .
`` What about Burnsides '' ? ?
`` They ain't even in sight '' ! !
By then Hez could see for himself , and so could the others .
After their supper , the evening turned into a regular `` Hoe-Down '' .
`` Golly '' , Rod exclaimed to Harmony as he dutifully stood by her side among the ringed spectators , `` don't that fiddle make you wish the Bible didn't say us Baptists can't dance '' ? ?
`` Nor Methodists , neither '' , she replied .
Rod gave her a warm pat on the shoulder before he replied .
At these words of sympathy and understanding , Harmony said generously , `` I don't mind setting here along with Gran while you go out and join in the games '' .
Rod shifted his eager eyes from the milling group out in the circle long enough to reply , `` I ain't much of a hand for Dare-Base and Farmer-in-the-Dell , but I'd sure like to get in on the handhold and wrestles '' .
With Rod on his way and Matilda visiting with Mrs. Jackson while they searched out familiar names on the face of the cliff , Harmony settled on the edge of the grub box , to ease the pressure of her swollen body on her bone-weary legs , and worried about all that might have happened to Sally .
At the sight of Sally's happy face and carefree expression , Harmony's dark , brooding eyes quickly brightened with unshed tears .
Out in the center of the circle the farmer , who was Dan , wasted no time when they came to the line , `` The farmer choose his wife '' .
By now Harmony could see that most of the adults in the train were winded and resting , or else siphoned off from the games by the challenging lure of the great cliff towering above them .
No sooner were they through and the guards posted , than the whole camp turned in for a night of sound sleep .
Next morning , they moved on again .
`` My souls' a-gracious '' ! !
Rod and Dan released their holds on the arms of her hickory rocker and exchanged embarrassed grins .
Leaning forward in her chair , Gran nearsightedly scrutinized Dan's face .
`` Quit ragging him , Gran '' , Rod protested .
`` I ain't ragging him '' ! !
The two tall brothers waited silently while their mother handed Gran her cold snack and water jug , placed the chamber pot beside her feet , and returned to her place at the front of the wagon with Alice .
`` Rheumatics worse , Pa '' ? ?
`` My right leg's stiff as a board this morning '' , he replied .
The three men stepped out to the side to wait for Captain Clemens' signal .
Hez looked up at the high face of Emigrant Rock , official signboard for the Raft River turnoff , and gloated , `` Seems funny that them Burnsides never took time to leave their John-Henry up thar '' .
`` Wonder what made them hurry so '' , Rod drawled , giving Dan a sly wink .
Dan grinned , and changed the subject .
`` Ain't no sense you eating our dust '' , Rod protested .
`` Sally and her ma want to trade off on account of Harmony being so far along '' , Dan explained .
Captain Clemens' signal shot sent the men hurrying to their waiting teams .
`` Reckon ye're right , Dan '' , Hez called back over his shoulder .
Rod looked apprehensively ahead at the narrowing , precipice-walled gorge .
Out of the corner of his eye , he could see his father's wheels beginning to turn .
Before Harmony had a chance to reply , Rod cracked his long whip over his thin oxen's backs .
While no larger than Dutch Springs , this mining supply town had the appearance of being far busier and more prosperous .
`` Gyp'll be holdin' forth in some bar if he's here at all '' , Cobb declared , glancing along the street as they stretched their legs .
There were no less than six or seven saloons in Ganado , not counting the lower class dives , all vying for the trade of celebrating miners and teamsters .
Cobb's assent was tight .
Separating , they took different sides of the main drag and systematically combed the bars .
The Palace was an elaborate establishment , built practically on stilts in front , with long flights of wooden steps running up to the porch .
Against all expectation , Carmer was inside , clearly enjoying himself to the hilt and already so tipsy that it seemed unlikely he was bothering to note anything or anyone about him .
Reaching the porch rail beyond view of the bar windows , he feverishly scanned the busy street below .
`` What luck , Cobb '' ? ?
Russ pointed upward .
Climbing the steps steadily , they reached the top and headed for the door .
A man knocked the roulette ball about idly in its track , and another dozed at one of the card tables .
`` Where yuh goin' '' ? ?
It was the barkeep .
A hall opened in back of the bar , running toward an ell .
The door was locked .
`` Okay , Stevens .
Complying methodically , Pat pulled pocket after pocket inside out without finding a thing .
`` Look at this '' ! !
Inside the crown , stuffed behind the stained sweatband , could be seen thin , crumpled wads of currency .
`` By golly , Stevens ! !
Pat grunted .
Russ ran through the bills and named an amount it was highly unlikely any cowpuncher would come by honestly .
Handing the money over , Russ wiped his hands on his pants-legs as if ridding himself of something unclean .
Leaving the card room , they moved back through the Palace the way they had come .
Neither spoke till they reached their horses .
To his faint surprise Russ held up his hand .
`` Whatever you say '' .
`` Old Crip wasn't '' , retorted Cobb tartly .
`` Pat had never pretended to give advice in such affairs .
`` You don't have to tell me '' , flashed Cobb .
The truth was , the puncher was both bewildered and dismayed by his own mixed luck .
Over and above that , however , was his growing suspicion of Chuck Stober's part in recent events .
How much of an accident could that be '' ? ?
Nearing home , he jerked to attention at the distant crack of a gun .
As near as Cobb could determine the shots came from the direction of the Antler ranch house .
His first glimpse of the ranch house across the brushy swells told him nothing .
When it was followed by a second , whining even closer , Cobb swerved sharply aside into a depression .
Cursing himself for having ridden out the last few days without a rifle in his saddle boot , Russ drew his Colt and examined it briefly .
`` Over this way ! !
A carbine cracked more loudly , and a slug clipped fragments from the brush off at one side .
Swinging up then , and bending forward over the horn , he urged his mount down the meandering draw .
`` Jumping Jerusalem ! !
At the first shot Russ had hurled his mount to the left toward the side of the winding draw .
He dashed madly for the next elbow turn in the draw , and made it .
Early in November the clouds lifted enough to carry out the assigned missions .
Cricket took eight ships and went south across the Straits and along the north coast of Mindanao to Cagayan .
A weapons carrier took Greg , Todman , Belton , Banjo Ferguson , and Walters and the others the two miles from the bivouac area to the strip .
The truck dropped them off at the various revetments spread through the jungle .
`` I've got her as neat as I can '' , Donovan said , as he dropped the straps of the Seton harness over Greg's shoulders .
`` We'll make out .
`` Yeah .
Greg rumbled down the rough metal taxi strip , and one by one the seven members of his flight fell in behind him .
Greg's mission was the last to leave , and as he circled the ships off Tacloban he saw the clouds were dropping down again .
The overcast was solid above him .
Greg pushed the radio button on his throttle .
`` Roger , Sweeney '' , Todman called back , and pulled his four in and slightly above Greg .
Greg took the formation wide around three A-26 attack bombers that were headed north over the Gulf .
The valley was only a few hundred yards wide with just about room enough for a properly performed hundred-and-eighty-degree turn .
When the sea was visible ahead of them , the relief was as great as if the sun had come out .
Once Todman thought he had spotted a tank and went down to investigate while Greg covered him .
Visibility continued to be limited , and Greg was never able to get above a thousand feet .
Finally , as time began to run out , he headed into Ormoc and glide-bombed a group of houses that Intelligence had thought might contain Japanese supplies .
With their load of bombs gone , the planes moved swiftly and easily .
Greg's eyes flicked up from his instrument panel .
`` Zeros '' ! !
And then he thought Todman might be right .
If it were the enemy , tactically his position was correct .
In seconds , Greg made his decision .
He pushed the radio button .
The planes , light with most of the gas burned out , responded beautifully .
Greg pushed the radio button again .
Even as he said it , Greg knew they had found the enemy .
Greg slapped his hand across the switches that turned on the guns and gun camera and gun sight .
`` They're Japs .
`` Greg to Sweeney Blue .
He moved the flights over against one wall .
Greg slammed his throttle to the fire wall and rammed up the RPM , and the engine responded as if it had been waiting .
He hauled back on the stick and felt his cheeks sag .
With the rapid rate of closure , the approach from below , the side , and ahead , there would be only a moment when damage could be done .
He tightened his turn .
He took a lead on the enemy , using a distance of five of the radii in his circular sight and then added another .
Now ! !
Greg's fingers closed on the stick trigger .
Wingman , stay clear , he prayed .
Over the rattling of fenders , humming of tires and chattering of gears there was a charming melody of whispers and tiny giggles .
`` Moriarty '' , my driver suddenly exclaimed with something so definite , so final in his tone I once more repeated the absurdity , mustering all my latent powers of hypocrisy to sound convinced .
We were coming to an intersection , turning right , chuffing to a stop .
Forced to realize that this was the end of a very short line I scanned a road marker and discovered what the end of a slightly longer line would be for the old Mexican : Moriarty , New Mexico .
`` Gracias .
Autos whizzed past .
Suddenly a treble auto horn tootley-toot-tootled , and , thumbing hopefully , I saw emergent in windshield flash : red lips , streaming silk of blonde hair and -- ah , trembling confusion of hope , apprehension , despair -- the leering face of old Herry .
`` Mor-ee-air-teeeee '' , he shrieked , his white teeth grossly counterpointing those of the glittering blonde .
Over the rapidly-diminishing outline of a jump seat piled high with luggage Herry's black brushcut was just discernible , near , or enviably near that spot where -- hidden -- more delicately-textured , most beautifully tinted hair must still be streaming back in cool , oh cool wind sweetly perfumed with sagebrush and yucca flowers and engine fumes .
Damn his luck .
Still nursing anger I listlessly thumbed a car that was slowly approaching , its pre-war chrome nearly blinding me .
Just as I straightened up with my duffel bag , I heard : `` Sahjunt Yoorick , meet Mrs. Major J. A. Roebuck '' .
Squeezing a look between Johnson's fat jowls and the car frame a handsome and still darkhaired lady inquired `` Y'all drahve '' ? ?
I nodded .
`` Onleh one thiihng '' , Mrs. Roebuck continued .
I said that it didn't make any difference to me either , as far as I knew .
How far I knew will shortly become apparent .
I let up on the accelerator , only to gradually reach again the 60 m.p.h. which would , I hoped , overhaul Herry and the blonde , and as there were cars whose drivers apparently had something more important to catch than had I , Mrs. Major Roebuck settled down to practicing on Corporal Johnson the kittenish wiles she would need when making her duty call on Colonel and Mrs. Somebody in Sante Fe .
When Johnson ejaculated `` Howsabout my buying us all a nice cold Co-cola , Ma'am '' ? ?
Johnson never would have believed she had a son that age .
`` No , I don't '' , Johnson said .
Mrs. Roebuck very kindly let me drive through Sante Fe to a road which would , she said , lead us to Taos and then Raton and `` eventshahleh '' out of New Mexico .
Hardly had Mrs. Roebuck driven off when a rusty pick-up truck , father or grandfather of Senor `` Moriarty's '' Ford sedan , came screeching to a dust-swirling stop , and a brown face appeared , its nose threatened by shards of what had once been the side window .
`` Get in , buddies .
Johnson unwired the right hand door , whose window was , like the left one , merely loosely-taped fragments of glass , and Johnson wadded himself into a narrow seat made still more narrow by three cases of beer .
`` In back , buddy '' , the driver said to me .
Quickly but carefully lowering my duffel bag over the low side-rack , I stepped on the running board ; ;
I was again in motion and at a speed which belied the truck's similarity to Senor X's Ford turtle .
Something pulled my leg .
I drew back , drawing back my foot for a kick .
`` Wanna beer '' ? ?
`` Hell , yes '' , I roared back between dusty lips .
`` Bueno , amigo .
At once my ears were drowned by a flow of what I took to be Spanish , but -- the driver's white teeth flashing at me , the road wildly veering beyond his glistening hair , beyond his gesticulating bottle -- it could have been the purest Oxford English I was half hearing ; ;
Johnson was trying to grab the wheel , though the swerve of the truck was throwing him away from it .
We were off the road , gleaming barbed wire pulling taut .
Just as I got to my knees , there was again the sound of the fence stretching , and I had time only to start taking my kneeling posture seriously .
We were back on the road .
`` Tee-wah '' , the driver cackled , his black eyes glittering behind dull silver chicken fencing .
I nodded .
`` Hell , that's all right , buddy '' , the Indian ( I now guessed ) said .
Miraculously , the bottle was still in my hand , foam still geysering over my ( luckily ) waterproof watch .
Teeth again flashing back at me , the driver released a deluge of Spanish in which `` amigo '' appeared every so often like an island in the stormy waves of surrounding sound .
Suddenly the Spanish became an English in which only one word emerged with clarity and precision , `` son of a bitch '' , sometimes hyphenated by vicious jabs of a beer bottle into Johnson's quivering ribs .
A big car was approaching , its chrome teeth grinning .
I tossed the bottle .
`` Aye-yah-ah-ah '' ! !
The Indian was again raising his bottle , but to my astonished relief -- probably only a fraction of Johnson's -- the bottle this time went to the Indian's lips .
Another car was coming , a tiny , dark shape on a far hill .
We were slowing .
The car was approaching fast .
Suddenly and not a second too soon I thought of the coins in my pocket .
There was a blur just under my focus of vision , a crash ; ;
I heard the screech of brakes behind me , an insane burst of laughter beneath me .
`` S-s-sahjunt '' .
Two cars came over a crest , their chrome and glass flashing .
Brakes shrieked behind us .
`` Drink , you son of a bitch '' ! !
I guided her to the divan , turned off the TV , faced her .
I said , `` Do we know each other , Miss '' ? ?
`` No , I remembered reading about you in the papers and that you lived here , and when it happened all I could think of was '' -- This time she stopped the rush of words herself .
`` Sure '' .
`` No , thanks '' .
`` I forgot '' ! !
`` I forgive '' --
`` That's what started all the trouble in the first place .
`` You and me both , dear .
`` You may have seen me on TV '' , she said .
Then it hit me .
`` Why , yes .
`` Yes , indeed .
`` That's the last one we did .
`` I'll bet .
`` It depends on who does it .
`` I couldn't agree with you more '' .
`` I really do have something important to tell you , Mr. Scott .
`` Murder ? ?
She told me .
My lovely caller -- Joyce Holland was her name -- had previously done three filmed commercials for zing , and this evening , the fourth , a super production , had been filmed at the home of Louis Thor .
Joyce went on , `` When we'd finished , Lou -- Mr. Thor -- asked me to stay a little longer .
`` He didn't '' ! !
`` Yes , he didn't .
`` You got away , didn't you '' ? ?
`` Yes .
`` I didn't know .
`` So I just scooted out of his clutches .
She'd driven around for a while , Joyce said , then , thinking Louis Thor would have calmed down by that time , she'd gone back to his home on Bryn Mawr Drive , parked in front , and walked toward the pool .
`` A man was holding onto Lou , holding him up .
`` You know who the other man was '' ? ?
`` No , I never did see his face .
What Joyce wanted me to do was go to Thor's house and `` do whatever detectives do '' , and get her clothes -- and handbag containing her identification .
Her impact in the zing commercials had led to her being considered for an excellent part in an upcoming TV series , Underwater Western Eye , a documentary-type show to be sponsored by Oatnut Grits .
`` And I so want the part '' , she said .
As far as I was concerned , she had already and had dandily shown what she could do .
Joyce squirmed a little on the divan .
`` Itch '' ? ?
`` Yes , I'm still all covered with that soap .
`` You might as well wait here while I'm gone , so you can use my shower if you'd like '' .
`` Oh , I'd love to '' .
`` Only when I do it '' .
I looked at my watch .
`` Goodbye .
`` Oh , you can count on that '' .
She smiled slightly .
That was all she said .
Bryn Mawr Drive is only two or three miles from the Spartan , and it took me less than five minutes to get there .
Lieutenant Rawlins , one of the plain-clothesmen , spotted me and said , `` Hi , Shell '' , and walked toward me .
He filled me in .
`` What were they doing here '' ? ?
`` They were supposed to meet Thor at nine PM for a conference concerning the ad campaign for their soap , a new angle based on this SX-21 stuff '' .
`` Yeah , I've heard more about SX-21 than space exploration lately .
`` How would I know ? ?
I said , `` O.K. , so now only Blake knows .
`` Can't say yet .
`` I'll pick murder .
`` According to Rose , he arrived here a couple minutes before nine and spotted Thor in the water , got a hooked pole from the pool-equipment locker and started hauling him out .
Too many people think that the primary purpose of a higher education is to help you make a living ; ;
I worked for my Uncle ( an Uncle by marriage so you will not think this has a mild undercurrent of incest ) who ran one of those antique shops in New Orleans' Vieux Carre , the old French Quarter .
I had a one-room studio which overlooked an ancient courtyard filled with flowers and plants , blooming everlastingly in the southern sun .
The arrangement turned out to be excellent .
My Uncle and I were not too close socially because of the difference in our ages .
My new Aunt was perhaps three or four years older than I and it had been a long time since I had seen as gorgeous a woman who oozed sex .
You must forgive me if I seem to dwell too much on her physical aspects but I am an artist , accustomed to studying the physical body .
That she impressed me instantly was obvious ; ;
She was standing with her back to the glass door .
When she appeared at the store to help out for a few hours even my looking at her was surreptitious lest my Uncle notice it .
Why she married him I do not know .
For several weeks we eyed one another almost like sparring partners , and then one day Uncle was slightly indisposed and stayed home ; ;
I was aware of a humid look in her eyes that told me the time was opportune .
I bent and kissed the still pink neck and suddenly she jumped up , and her two arms encircled me in a bear-like crush .
It did not take me long to slip the bolt securely and return to the rear and its couch .
When we opened the door again for business and switched on the lights she said :
`` He will not always be indisposed '' .
`` I know .
`` I don't know '' , she said .
`` I guess we both felt it '' .
`` I guess so '' , she said .
`` But now what '' ? ?
Even as I said it I realized that an education can be invaluable .
`` I know what we can do '' , I said .
She raised a protesting hand with a startled air .
`` What are you trying to do ? ?
`` I don't want to be thrown out and I don't think I will .
`` By telling him you are making passes at me '' ? ?
`` When I was in college '' , I grinned , `` I remember a poem I had to read in my lit class .
`` But you '' -- she began .
`` Don't worry about me .
`` I don't understand '' , she insisted .
`` No '' , I chuckled , `` I'm just beginning to collect dividends on my investment in education '' .
As we expected , on the following day my Uncle was completely recovered and opened the store as usual at 10 in the morning .
I quit work at my usual hour as if this day was no different from other days .
In the half darkness I approached cautiously , making sure he did not see me .
`` You cheap bitch '' ! !
He had better write a postcard to Walter .
`` Squaresville , man , and all the palazzos are crummy Palasts '' .
That ought to draw a laugh , Nicolas reasoned , as he stored the line away on the wax tape that was his mind .
And indeed , his postcard did draw from Walter a letter recommending his friend , the poet Nicolas Manas , to his friend Meredith Wilder .
His hand was large and square and heavily tanned .
But Nicolas , too , was being interrupted , that morning .
Not by the 11:00 sun which had spread a warmth around his spot of grass in the English Gardens and sent him off to sleep ; ;
That long night with Nicolas and marijuana in Venice had opened her eyes .
The next day he was gone .
Mary Jane might not be the most intelligent woman , but she was one of the most determined .
She set down her suitcase .
The sun grew hotter as it approached the midday .
Mary Jane got up , quietly , and walked away .
Twenty minutes later she was at the desk of the Grafin's pension , her tears dried , signing a hotel form and asking for a bath .
Mary Jane belonged to a world acquainted with small attractive hotels and pensions in all the major and minor cities .
Meredith was irritated when the Grafin knocked at his door and told him , `` She is a great beauty ! !
In the small gallery used as the guests' dining room , Meredith sat down at his place and , as always , began teasing the young waitress .
Soup : `` Only this morning '' ; ;
`` What a beautiful room .
Having opened the windows onto the terrace , lit the fire , translated the motto , Meredith grinned and took down a little triplet of books bound together in old calfskin .
`` Those sweet girls ? ?
At her door , two or three hours later , Mary Jane whispered , `` Everyone is asleep '' .
They were west of the Sabine , but only God knew where .
For three days , their stolid oxen had plodded up a blazing valley as flat and featureless as a dead sea .
Ben Prime extended his high-stepped stride until he could lay his goad across the noses of the oxen .
He removed his hat to let the trapped sweat cut rivulets through the dust film upon his gaunt face .
He cleared his throat and wet his lips .
He unlashed the dipper and drew water from a barrel .
He cleansed his mouth with a small quantity .
She drank and pushed back her gingham bonnet to wet a kerchief and wipe her face .
`` What happens when there's no more water '' ? ?
She was like charcoal , he thought -- dark , opaque , explosive .
A ripple ran through the muscles of his jaws , but he kept control upon his voice .
`` There must be some water under there '' .
`` And add fever to our troubles '' ? ?
`` We can boil it '' , he said .
Her chin sharpened .
`` Hettie '' , he said as gently as he could , `` we're still headed west .
`` Somewhere ! !
His wide mouth compressed .
It had been a mistake , but anything would have been a mistake , as it turned out .
The bitterness of their wedding night still ripped within him like an open wound .
He stared at the dipper , turning it over and over in his wide , calloused hands .
`` Don't try to be noble '' ! !
He winced .
`` I might have starved , but at least I wouldn't be fried to a crisp and soaked with dirt '' ! !
He darkened under his heavy burn .
To his puzzlement , there suddenly was no haze .
Then he noticed the clouds racing upon them -- heavy , ominous , leaden clouds that formed even as they sliced over the crests of the surrounding hills .
He hollered hoarsely , `` Hang on '' ! !
He swung up over the wheel .
But she sat on in stubborn silence .
The clouds bulged downward and burst suddenly into a great black funnel .
Their world turned black .
The jetting , frothing surface of the river reached the level of the runoff .
The cloudburst cut off abruptly .
Beaten with fear and sound and wet and chill , they crawled to the hurricane deck and looked out haggardly at a world of water that reached clear to the surrounding hills .
There was no real sign of the river now , just a roiling , oily ribbon of liquid movement through muddy waters that reached everywhere .
The girl crawled out into the renewing warmth of the sunshine , hugging her shoulders and still trembling .
Out of compulsion to say something cheery , Ben Prime blurted , `` Well , we were lucky to be on soft ground when the first floodheads hit .
His wife didn't give a sign she'd heard .
She did not call out .
`` There's the one who's lucky '' ! !
Ben's eyes strained with the bitter hurt , his homely face slashed with gray and crimson .
It was nearly sundown and he went to the back of the wagon , half-swimming his way , for he was not a tall man .
He sputtered back to his feet and scrambled madly to pull his bags of seed grain forward .
He examined the water marks on the iron tires when the animals were finished .
He doubted if a man could wade as far as the desolate , dry hills that rimmed the valley .
He gripped the wheel hard to fight the despondency of defeat .
Hope surged within him .
He got a small fire started and put on bacon and coffee .
His long nose wiggled at the smells of frizzling bacon and heating java , but the fire was low , and he wanted to waste no time .
He looked thoughtfully at his wife's trunk , holding her meager treasures .
She said without turning her head , `` After that rain beating in atop the dust , there isn't a thing that won't be streaked '' .
He drew a long breath and opened the trunk and hung out her clothes and spoilables upon the wagon ribs .
Sulphur , oil , and copra make the kind of tinder any firebug dreams of .
The lifeboats were stuck fast .
One especially bad detonation shook Lifeboat No. 3 which trembled violently in the davits .
We pulled and swore and yanked and wept , scraping our hands until they bled profusely .
Brassnose , Max and I leaped into the sea and swam to the boat .
Then the Bonaventure seemed to disintegrate with a roar of live steam , geysers of sparks and flames , and a dense cloud of black-and-orange smoke .
Already our leaky lifeboat was filled with five inches of water .
As best as I could determine , we were some 700 miles west of New Guinea , in the Bismark Archipelago .
Brassnose was strangely silent .
He then said something which struck a chord in my memory .
`` God help us if we're near the island of Eromonga .
I was puzzled by the remark , then I recalled the voice of mild Professor Howard Griggs three years ago in a university lecture on primitive societies .
`` Even when the islands were under German mandate before World War 1 , , Europeans gave Eromonga a wide berth .
I remembered , too , the jesting voice of a classmate , Bobby Pauson : `` But how do they reproduce , Dr. Griggs ? ?
There had been classroom guffaws which quickly subsided as Professor Griggs said dryly : `` I see your point , Pauson .
`` I think I know what you mean , Brassnose '' , I said .
But we didn't .
A half-hour passed ; ;
`` Tchalo ! !
I squinted at the looming shoreline .
`` What is the scaffolding for , Brassnose '' ? ?
He made a sound of despair deep in his throat .
`` Aaa-ee ! !
Our lifeboat was filling rapidly and despite what I had heard of the inhabitants of Eromonga , I was glad to see a long and graceful outrigger manned by three bronzed girls glide out of a lagoon into the open sea and toward our craft .
I expected Brassnose -- as a man with a strain of Melanesian in his blood -- to speak to them .
So , I mustered my few words of the Manu dialect and said , `` We greet you in peace .
The girl in the prow of the outrigger turned a smile like a beacon on me .
She said , `` My name is Songau and these girls are Ponkob and Piwen .
Thirty minutes later , the outrigger grated on sand and other girls , waiting on shore , rushed forward to pull it up on the beach and make it fast with vine ropes to a large boulder .
I looked .
There was one object which sickened yet fascinated me .
The body may have been two or three weeks' dead .
As if divining my thoughts , the girl Songau smiled warmly and said in the casual tone an American woman might use in describing her rose garden :
`` This is our tultul , a jumping platform , aku .
`` You have every right to be '' , I replied gravely in the Manu dialect , but my attention was fixed on Brassnose , the biggest and strongest of us .
I clapped the big man with the bleached hair on his shoulder and said heartily , hoping it would make an impression on the women : `` This one is the maku Frayne .
This was the worst thing I could have said .
At first , I thought he was out of his head , talking wildly like this .
The women's faces had hardened after my statement .
Besides , terror had sapped some of Frayne's vitality and will .
.
Her name was L'Turu and she told me many things .
From L'Turu , I heard that until about 1850 the people of this island -- which was about the size of Guam or smaller -- had been of both sexes , and that the normal family life of Melanesian tribes was observed here with minor variations .
But in the middle of the last century an island woman named `` Karipo '' seized a spear in the heat of an inter-tribal battle and rallied the women after their men had fled .
Karipo was something of a politician as well as a militarist .
`` Karipo was great goddess , told our mothers that men were not necessary except to father children '' , the crone told me .
The old woman arose stiffly and led me to a clearing where a small hut stood .
`` I guess he spent the morning getting himself all organized , then headed for home .
`` I'd like to know just which it is that those guys don't understand , the liquor or automobiles '' .
`` Ever see yourself spread out on the pavement , Benny '' ? ?
`` You mean dream '' ? ?
`` Not exactly .
`` Nope , just you , all the time -- sometimes I think it's the only way I'll ever get a decent partner '' .
Ramey smiled but he thought to himself , I always see me too .
`` You seen him yet '' ? ?
`` He wasn't in the car '' , Ramey said .
`` You didn't go clear around '' , Benson said .
`` Too long a waiting line '' , Ramey answered , pretending to joke .
A few minutes later the insurance man , a road checker , drove up in the gray coupe with license plates on it from a far-away state .
The insurance man informed them that he had talked to Crumley who was all right and that he would watch the men's personal effects until they towed the rig back to town .
When they were ready to leave , Benson and Ramey walked back around the rear of the trailer .
`` There's a body you won't mind looking at '' , Benson said and they stopped .
`` What outfit does she drive for '' ? ?
Seeing her caused a lurch in Ramey , a recognition .
`` What's she doing in this bunch '' ? ?
The girl looked around at the countryside .
The man stood near the bent levi-clad body of the Indian who lay face down almost under the car .
`` What does he want , a spoon '' ? ?
One tiny detail in a happening can clog the memory and stick like meat in a crooked tooth , while the rest of the occurrence will go hazy and uncertain .
The two men in overalls stood just behind the blonde-headed man .
`` He's dead , isn't he '' ? ?
`` What's this '' ? ?
`` Don't '' .
`` But what is it '' ? ?
But what is it ? ?
The sneaker reached out once more to tap against the mass and Ramey's vision darkened except for an unreasonable clarity of the man's leg .
The man seemed to sink a little as Ramey brought the tire iron down on his shoulder and it seemed that the blonde head was turning as he hit the man again , with his fist .
The man took two short steps backward then sat down heavily on the pavement .
With a thoughtful look , the man sat on the pavement , legs straight out in front of him .
Ramey could hear the crowd coming up rapidly behind him and the questioning voices coming over his shoulder had no identity or importance to him .
`` What happened '' ? ?
`` He's hurt '' ! !
The girl kneeled by her husband with one arm at his back .
`` Why did you do it -- why did you hit him '' ? ?
Behind Ramey feet scraped beneath sharp questioning whispers .
Ramey looked around and caught sight of his partner near the front end of the wrecked truck talking to the patrolman .
`` All right , step back '' ! !
`` You all right '' ? ?
`` Mough -- it's my mough '' , the man said , trying to talk without moving his lips .
Then he calmly and carefully slugged the remaining five shots into the venomous head -- caught in the wicker back of the chair , the eyes dead on him as the life finally went out of the brute .
It was only then that he turned to look at Penny .
She was sitting on the edge of the bed again , back in the same position where the snake had found her .
But her hands were calm , now .
`` Keith '' , said Penny , `` Keith , you were wonderful .
He smiled at her sincerity .
`` I realize that this is hardly the time to say it , Penny '' , said Keith .
Penny lowered her eyes .
`` Yes '' , she said , almost in a whisper , as if admitting to a crime .
`` The snake was beautiful , wasn't it '' ? ?
Penny did not answer .
`` We're all God's creatures , aren't we '' ? ?
Penny would not rise to his mood .
`` There isn't anything left to say , is there , Keith '' ? ?
She softly let herself into the bed , and took her regular side , away from the door , where she slept better because Keith was between her and the invader .
The Brahmaputra has its headwaters in the tableland of the world , the towering white headwalls of the Himalayas that are unknown to man as any other space on the planet .
Keith Sterling had looked down on the Brahmaputra more times than he could remember , during the war days when he flew over the Hump of the world , thinking it high adventure in those times before man was guiding himself through outer space .
At first it had been just a romantic dream of his , the same as the idea of finishing Oxford after the war .
He knew how to shoot down Nazis .
Nowadays , we talk as though the blitz were just a short skirmish .
Keith learned too much about air combat , and air killing , to be risked .
That was where he met Penny .
He was aware of her as a frightfully good-looking American WAC , a second lieutenant assigned to do the paper work , ( regardless of how important she might have thought she was ) in the Command offices , but that was all .
His hair was black , already greying at the temples in the classic beauty-idiom , the only one permitted to a man .
Penny and Keith had no romance .
The Command offices were in the border country , up north , where the radar systems centralized their intelligence reports , and the fighters were dispatched to harry the enemy .
This time , they had been lucky .
This one was actually more of a `` near miss '' .
That is , everyone but Keith and Penny .
They stood there , just the two of them , in the rocking , shattering blast .
The bomb was a solitary one .
The chaplain married them , on the next day .
After the war , Penny had wanted Keith at least to visit her home with her .
When they got to Shillong , in Assam , he was happy .
He and Penny would go out on tame elephants , raised from babyhood in the keddah .
Now , the next morning , they were anchored at The Elbow and the boat was riding directly over the underwater ledge where the green water turned to deepest blue and the cliff dropped straight down 600 fathoms , with the weighted line beside it ; ;
He and his safety man , Herr Schaffner , swam up to the boarding ladder together .
`` Temper , temper '' , Mrs. Forsythe said , laughing uneasily .
`` I loused it '' , Rob said , with a savage note in his voice .
`` Was it my equipment '' ? ?
`` The equipment was fine '' , Rob stated , standing up .
`` Well , I get it '' , Artie said , still on the ladder .
`` No , it wasn't that '' , Rob said .
`` Pressure-happy '' , Artie said , and climbed in .
`` That's right '' , Robinson said .
Waddell , the newspaperman , was a fellow in his middle forties , with a graying crewcut , heavy-framed glasses , and a large jaw padded with fat .
`` Well , that's the only way to be '' , Mrs. Forsythe said , and gave her brassy laugh .
`` Maybe not , if you're 200 feet under water '' , Artie said .
`` Anyway '' , Waddell went on .
`` Nobody's giving anything up '' , Robinson said .
`` That's my boy '' ! !
`` Why '' , he went on , `` when Rob asked me if he could make his dive on this trip , I didn't think twice about it .
`` Seven years ago , Commodore '' , Rob said impassively .
`` When you gotta go , you gotta go '' , Mrs. Forsythe said .
Waddell muttered something about taking a look around and climbed up to the flying bridge .
`` Hi there , Schaffner '' , he had said .
`` No thank you very much '' , Schaffner had answered in his accented English .
Waddell had looked the man over , trying to size him up .
`` Rob tells me he's using your Atlantis equipment on the dive '' .
`` Yes '' , Herr Schaffner had said .
`` He's one hell of a decent boy .
`` I agree , yes '' .
`` And if the dive goes OK he has the exclusive import rights to your line for this country , is that right '' ? ?
`` Well , no '' , Herr Schaffner said .
Waddell turned to face him .
Shaffner looked at him , altogether without guile , and shrugged his shoulders , making a little spreading gesture with his two hands .
`` What do you mean '' ? ?
`` Please let me explain '' , the German said earnestly , his face still devoid of deceit .
Waddell was not an eminently moral person , but he did not like what he had just heard .
`` Perhaps not in so many words '' , the German said .
`` Well , damn '' , Waddell said .
`` One moment '' ! !
`` What else '' ? ?
`` If you will pardon , I think it would be better if not .
`` Well , let's let him make up his own mind , OK '' ? ?
`` You will make him unhappy and anxious '' , the German said .
There was no doubt that Herr Schaffner meant every word of what he said .
`` I am an honest man '' , the German said with fervor .
The German's words worked on the newspaperman like a reprieve from an odious duty .
`` Yes '' , the German said .
`` By God '' , Waddell said , `` we don't want to upset the boy at this time of all times .
`` Thank you '' , the German had said courteously .
Now , in that same cabin , Robinson fell to his knees beside a bunk .
`` Blessed Saint Nicholas , I thank thee for getting me out of that mess and sending me up instead of down when I was bewildered .
He crossed himself again and rose .
`` You know I know it '' , Robinson answered warily .
`` You came straight up from 275 without a stop '' , Artie said .
`` Well , I was a little bit confused .
`` You know what they say about two deep dives in one day '' , Artie went on , still twirling the snorkle and studying it intently .
Early that day Matsuo saw a marine .
In the leafiest part of the tree , straddling a broad horizontal limb , he could see over the meadow .
His superiors had emphasized that marines tortured others for the sheer pleasure .
What if the marines never came ? ?
Whichever the way , he would rot in this vast choking green , his wife never to receive an urn of his ashes .
As he looked up from picking at a leg ulcer , he saw a marine in the jungle across the clearing .
The marine came to the edge of the green jungle mist and stayed , as though debating whether to brave the sunlight .
`` Come out , come out in the meadow '' , Matsuo said under his breath .
The man leaned against a tree and wiped a sleeve across his face .
Fresh on his mind were events of the past day when his whole regiment was destroyed in the hills .
Matsuo had faked death and was pitched on a stack of corpses , both the burned and the unburned , the latter decomposing rapidly under the tropical sun .
Apprehensively he peered to the left , to the right into the leafy , vine-crisscrossed maze .
A spectacle occurred across the meadow : the lone marine took a seat on the ground ; ;
The shot reverberated in diminishing whiplashes of sound .
The jungle did not retort .
Five or so minutes later the marine abruptly pulled up and stepped into sunlight , immediately throwing his hands over his eyes .
With a sudden decisiveness he lurched in Matsuo's direction , crossing the meadow in a zigzagging gallop .
The bobbing head was a poor target , so Matsuo shot him in the upper trunk .
The marine spun , clapping a hand high on his chest , and dived forward .
Down the tree he scrambled and knelt at the edge of foliage .
Rifle leveled on the man , he made a rush .
He squatted by the head , gently placing the rifle on the ground .
Too bad the marine had no water .
So , alive .
Some odor made him lean over the man .
The marine tried to roll on his right side , and moaned .
Awkwardly with one hand Matsuo got the cap back on the water bottle .
The marine shut his eyes .
Every so often he turned the knife .
At last he reached for the knife .
Matsuo stood up .
The marine , hands on cheeks , rolled by his unwounded side onto his stomach .
Matsuo walked toward his tree , once glancing back .
As Matsuo climbed by using the vines and kicking his feet against the trunk , a mood of gloom immersed him like a jungle shadow .
Someone called .
`` Sake '' ? ?
The marine nodded vigorously .
Matsuo laughed , slung the rifle .
The marine slumped forward into a bow like a priest before an idol .
He began to uncap the bottle , the rusty cap squealing on its threads .
Of course it was water he really craved ; ;
He capped the bottle and replaced it .
Before much longer the marine quieted down .
From the convulsive quivers of the man's shoulders it was plain he had resumed the weeping .
Chairs scraped back and customers hastily vacated their tables as the tall young buffalo hunter pushed open the swing doors and walked towards the bar .
`` Since when did they allow beardless kids into the saloon bars of this town , boys '' ? ?
He straightened up , alert now as the buffalo hunter came closer .
The stranger ignored him .
`` I'm Billy Tilghman '' , said the stranger , `` and I've come for Pat Conyers' body '' .
`` And what makes you think you're going to get it , pretty boy '' ? ?
`` Because I'm asking .
Blue Throat winked at his six cronies .
Tilghman leapt on to him , dragged him upright and hit him again , this time sending him careening against the bar .
The Colt roared twice and two men dropped , writhing .
`` Yes , George , but I ain't got poor old Pat's body yet .
`` And me '' , said another Blue Throat henchman .
Somebody brought a light .
In two minutes the body of Tilghman's former comrade , who had been killed by Blue Throat in a gambling brawl the previous night , was carried into the town's funeral parlor to be prepared for decent burial .
`` That critter will be back tomorrow '' , predicted George Rust , `` and he'll bring fifty of his kind back with him .
The prediction was correct .
`` Amen '' , said the Reverend Doran , grabbing his rifle propped up against a tombstone , `` and now my brethren , it would seem that our presence is required elsewhere '' .
Billy Tilghman and his comrades rode off to the battle .
He rode in at the head of sixty trigger-happy and liquor-crazed desperadoes and took over a livery barn at the entrance to Main Street .
The law-abiding citizens of Petrie had gathered inside Kaster's Store , halfway down the street .
`` If Blue Throat has his way he'll keep us all cooped up in here for days '' , he said .
He called the store owner and together they went into the stockroom .
He slipped outside , hugging the walls of buildings and dodging into doorways .
Fifty yards away from the barn he dodged inside a barber's shop and came out at the back .
Billy Tilghman did just that .
To Tilghman the incident was just one of a long list of hair-raising , smash-'em-down adventures on the side of the law which started in 1872 when he was only eighteen years old , and did not end till fifty years later when he was shot dead after warning a drunk to be quiet .
Of all the rip-roaring two-fisted tough boys of the Old West , `` Uncle Billy Tilghman '' stands out head and shoulders .
For fifty years his guns and ham-like fists shot holes through and battered the daylights out of the enemies of law and order in the frontier towns of the West .
The deeds of countless western bandits and outlaws have been glorified almost to the point of hero-worship , but because Billy Tilghman remained strictly on the side of the law throughout his action-packed career , his achievements and the appalling risks he took while taming the West have remained almost unsung .
Citizens took the view that a lawman was expected to risk his life on the odd occasion anyway , but this fighting fury of a man risked it regularly over a period of half a century .
He came within an ace of being riddled with bullets during his long fight with the Doolin gang which terrorized Oklahoma in the 1890's .
Tilghman knew that some ranchers were hand-in-glove with the Doolin gang .
On a bitterly cold day in January , 1895 , accompanied only by Neal Brown as his deputy , Tilghman left the township of Guthrie and headed for Rock Fort and Dunn's ranch .
The two lawmen halted their wagon about twenty yards from the door .
Leaving his rifle in the wagon , Tilghman walked up to the door and hammered on it .
`` Hello , Ed '' , said Tilghman .
Tilghman closed the door behind him and walked towards the fire .
And projecting wickedly through these curtains were the gleaming muzzles of six rifles , all trained on Billy Tilghman .
Thinking fast , Tilghman never hesitated for one instant .
`` Cold day '' , said Tilghman , placing his hands behind him and casually presenting his backside to the fire .
The rancher was trembling .
Resisting the overwhelming temptation to flng himself out of that bristling death-trap , Tilghman deliberately engaged the nervous rancher in trivial conversation for a good ten minutes .
`` Well '' , he announced , `` Guess I'll be going now , Ed , and thanks for the warmup '' .
But he knew well enough that those guns would still be trained on his back as he walked towards the wagon .
Leisurely he climbed on to the wagon next to Neal Brown .
Even as he spoke those words Billy Tilghman's life hung on a thread .
`` You'll stay right here '' , commanded Bill Doolin , covering Red with his rifle .
But the fighting marshal's fifty-year run of immunity from violent death came to a full and final stop one night in a street at Cromwell , Oklahoma , where he had been sent to clean up the gambling and vice rackets .
Wiley Lynn , a self-styled prohibition officer , had hit town the previous day and had been drinking ever since .
For several months now , Jack Carter , a big overgrown boy of fifteen with a fuzzy , pimpled face and greenish catlike eyes with a lot of red in them , had been haunted by a dream , a vision , of a Woman .
And so when Miss Langford came to teach at the one-room Chestnut school , where Jack was a pupil in the eighth grade , the Woman of Jack's mind assumed the teacher's face and figure .
Miss Langford ( her first name was Evelyn ) was an attractive girl .
School began in August , the hottest part of the year , and for the first few days Miss Langford was very lenient with the children , letting them play a lot and the new ones sort of get acquainted with one another .
All , that is , except Jack .
He didn't look back and he ran until he was out of sight of the schoolhouse and out of breath ; ;
He ate litle that morning , and his mother became concerned , inasmuch as he usually ate heartily .
`` What's the matter , honey '' ? ?
`` No , I'm not hungry '' , he said , pushing back the bacon and eggs .
`` Are you sick '' ? ?
`` No '' , he said .
`` Don't you play hard today then .
`` OK. , I won't play hard '' , he promised .
Just then Charles Lever yelled , `` Hey , Jack '' , from the quarry road which ran behind the Carter house , and Jack grabbed the lunch from the table and darted out the kitchen door , yelling `` Good-bye , Mom '' over his shoulder .
`` Whaddya say , boy '' ? ?
`` You know what I done last night '' ? ?
Jack knew of course that the tale to be unfolded would involve a girl and probably be dirty , because girls were Charles' only apparent interest .
`` I got Margaret Rider in one of them old box cars down there by the quarry '' .
A nude imaginary picture of Miss Langford flashed across Jack's mind .
`` Hell , I jist got on top of -- ''
`` No , I mean how'd you get her to do it '' ? ?
`` Hell , I jist ask her '' .
`` Jist like that '' ? ?
`` Hell , yes .
`` I never heard that '' .
`` It's all over Branchville .
`` I might try it one of these days '' , Jack said wonderingly , thinking of Miss Langford .
When they reached the school , a gang of boys and girls were already there playing `` crack the whip '' in front of the schoolhouse .
`` Time for books '' , she yelled , jingling a little five-and-dime store bell in her right hand .
`` Oh , come on Miss Langford , play with us just onct '' , one of the little girls begged , smiling wistfully .
`` No , not now '' , said the teacher .
The children grudgingly stopped playing then and straggled into the schoolhouse .
Jack watched Miss Langford all morning .
At noontime , remembering what the teacher had said about maybe playing with the kids , Jack stayed close to the schoolhouse while all the other big boys , except Charles , went off out the road to play ball .
`` I'd druther stay here and watch the girls '' , Charles grinned .
`` Maybe '' , Jack said idly , watching for Miss Langford .
Presently she came out of the schoolhouse .
`` Let's play with 'em '' , Jack said , rising from where he sat on the ground and dusting off his overall pants .
`` O.K. '' Charles rose also , and the two of them moved over to join the girls .
They played crack the whip a few minutes without mishap .
`` That's all right '' , she said , tossing her head back to get the hair out of her eyes .
`` Thank you '' , she said , dusting herself off .
`` Will you play with us again , Miss Langford '' ? ?
`` No more today .
`` Oh , shucks '' , the girl said .
`` Me neither '' , others said , and soon the game broke up , the children going off in pairs , in larger groups and alone .
Jack walked off alone out the road in the searing midday sun , past Robert Allen's three-room , tarpapered house , toward the field where the other boys were playing ball , thinking of what he would do in order to make Miss Langford have him stay in after school -- because this was the day he had decided when he thought he saw the look in her eyes .
When he came back to the schoolhouse , his mind was made up .
The only drawback now to the plan he'd decided on was that someone else might fail to do his work , too , and the teacher would have that person stay late along with Jack .
To his surprise his plan worked perfectly .
And so when the others stampeded out that afternoon Jack remained docilely in his seat near a window , looking out in what he hoped was a pitiable manner , while the other kids laughed and yelled in at him and made faces as they dispersed , going home .
On the fringe of the amused throng of white onlookers stood a young woman of remarkable beauty and poise .
The youth with the snake had a natural pride and joy of life which appealed to the woman .
The haughty white girl turned to a distinguished , hawk-faced man standing at her side and murmured : `` Look at your watch , Col. Garvier .
Col. Henri Garvier was one of New Orleans' most important and enlightened slave owners .
Johnny vigorously pounded two bleached steer bones against the gourd which served as his drum .
The drummer flogged the gourd with frantic intensity as the dancers began the calinda , a sensual gyration which had long been a favorite of voodoo practitioners and their disciples in the Louisiana slave compounds .
The white girl with the penetrating green eyes sipped the lemonade handed to her by a handsome man of about 30 , who had coppery skin and beetling eyebrows .
Delphine was a pace-setter in high society .
Madame Lalaurie gestured with her riding crop toward the 20-year-old youth who was stomping and writhing with the king snake still draped over his bare shoulders .
Shy , actually , he avoided feminine overtures and seemed truly ignorant of the girls' desires when they sought to make liaisons with him in the open fields , in carriages and in boathouses .
This young slave was therefore quite unprepared when Delphine Lalaurie signaled that she wanted him to draw near .
`` What is your name , boy ? ?
He gaped at Madame Lalaurie and sniffed the Paris perfume which emanated from her .
She said with intense feeling : `` Come near , let me feel your arms .
Mrs. Lalaurie impatiently propelled the slave toward her waiting carriage .
Once inside the luxuriosly-upholstered landau , she drew the curtains and proceeded to give the startled youth the kind of physical examination usually reserved for army inductees .
`` Aristide ! !
Aristide Devol , the sardonic manservant who had been brought in chains years before from his native Sierra Leone , smiled thinly and touched his well-brushed beaver hat .
`` Another youth , Madame '' ? ?
`` Be quiet , Devol ! !
The tall coachman walked off briskly in search of Alexander Prieur .
Dr. Louis Lalaurie stood on the veranda at the head of the driveway and watched his carriage as it approached the pillared mansion .
`` Another young man , my dear ? ?
Delphine presented her cheek for a kiss , and the physician pecked it like a timid rooster .
`` Dandy is to be our house guest , Louis .
`` Quite so , my dear .
The physician led the horses to the stable after a cursory glance at the cringing slave .
But he liked the smell of Delphine's perfume .
So Dandy Brandon trustingly entered the house with Delphine Lalaurie and trudged up the rear steps to the attic room which was to be his new home .
He bounced exuberantly on the sagging bed and was even more delighted when Madame Lalaurie -- after closing the door -- showed the slave that the bed was designed for something other than slumber .
It was just as well that the ignorant Dandy enjoyed himself to the hilt that first evening , for the room was to become his prison cell .
Just six weeks after Dandy Brandon's arrival at the mansion , the little surgeon and his svelte young wife gave their annual open house and ball , to which only New Orleans' oldest and wealthiest families were invited .
A stringed orchestra played softly behind the potted palms , and Delphine circulated graciously among her guests , chatting airily of the forthcoming races , the latest fashions from Paris , and Louisiana politics .
Suddenly there was a commotion upstairs , a despairing boyish shriek , and the strains of the waltz faltered and died as the musicians and guests gaped at an apparition descending the marble staircase .
It was Dandy Brandon , clad only in a bloody loincloth , emaciated and quaking as if the devil were breathing hard on him .
Feebly he pointed an accusing finger at Madame Lalaurie and shouted : `` Evil woman ! !
These were the last words he ever uttered .
Dr. Louis Lalaurie examined the inert form of the slave on the parquet dance floor and pronounced him dead .
But at the coroner's inquest Delphine told a forthright story .
`` I saw the boy Dandy at the Congo Square festivities and felt sorry for him .
She daubed at her swimming eyes with a lacy handkerchief and said with obvious emotion : `` That poor boy ! !
Though the slave's dying words about the woman troubled the coroner's panel , Dandy's accusation was adjudged an aberration by the jury and disregarded .
So the verdict was `` death at the hands of a person or persons unknown '' , and the elite of the city , accepting Delphine's testimony , welcomed her and the doctor back into the fold .
The excitement over Brandon's bizarre death abated and Madame Lalaurie's stock soared when she resumed her self-imposed chores of visiting the poor and bringing cakes and comfort to destitute patients in the county hospital .
Mrs. Victor Dominique , socially prominent and a neighbor of the Lalauries , chanced to glance out of her parlor window at dusk one evening and beheld an amazing sight .
The bleeding girl was tiring fast ; ;
The fugitive cried out in an oddly sibilant voice : `` Help me , somebody ! !
`` Bastards '' , he would say , `` all I did was put a beat to that Vivaldi stuff , and the first chair clobbered me '' ! !
`` There ain't nothin' faster , or lonelier , or more direct than a cannonball freight when you wanna go someplace '' , Feathertop would say .
He had been conning the freights for a long , long time now .
He was -- as he told himself in the vernacular of a trade no longer his own -- riding the dark train out .
The freight car was cold , early in the morning .
He was pressed far back into the corner of the car on his hay sacks , the rattling and tinning of the wheels on the rails almost covering the sound of his ocarina .
He held his elbows away from his body , and the little sweet potato trilled neatly and sweetly as he tickled its tune-belly .
The train slowed at a road crossing , and the big door slid open ; ;
The boy lifted the girl by the waist and set her on the lip of the floor .
A little thing , but the right twist for the action that counted .
Zingggg-O ! !
Then the boy straight-armed himself up , twisting at the last moment so he landed sitting .
He was less to see , but Feathertop took him in , too , just to keep the records straight .
Curly hair , high cheekbones , wide gnomelike mouth , a pair of drummer's blocky hands , and a body that said well , maybe I can wrestle you for ten minutes -- but then I'm finished .
`` We made it , Cappy '' , the chick said .
`` Yeah , seems so , don't it '' , the boy laughed , hugging her close .
`` Ah-ah '' ! !
They whirled and saw him , standing there dim in the slatted light from the boarded freight wall .
`` Come sit '' , said Feathertop , motioning them toward him .
The girl smiled , and started forward .
`` Now stay with me , Kitty '' , he snapped irritably .
`` Oooo , square bit '' , Feathertop screwed his face up .
`` What is with this vow jazz '' ? ?
`` We -- we eloped '' , Cappy said .
`` Well , congratulations '' .
But not just yet .
`` That ain't your name , Mister '' , the boy accused .
`` And you know -- you're right '' ! !
`` Oh , come on , Cappy '' , the girl chided .
Feathertop watched the smooth scissoring of her slim , trim legs as she walked to the bags , and tucked them beneath her , smoothing the skirt out in a wide circle .
He had it all doped , of course .
`` Where'd you come from , Mr. -- uh -- Mr. Smith '' ? ?
`` Where from '' ? ?
They lapsed into silence , and the freight wallowed up a hill , scooted down the other side , shaking and clanking to itself .
After a while , Kitty murmured something to Cappy , and he held her close , answering , `` We'll just have to wait till we pull into Philly , honey '' .
`` What's the matter , she wanna go the bathroom '' ? ?
The boy scowled at him , and the girl looked shocked .
`` No ! !
Joviality suffused Feathertop Ernie Cargill's voice as he reached behind him , pulling out a battered carpet bag , with leather handles .
Cappy looked wary , but he moved off the floorboards and followed the dirty ex-musician to the center of the refuse-littered boxcar .
Ernie crouched and opened the carpet bag .
`` A charcoal pit , man '' , he said , indicating the slightly-smoking makeshift brazier .
`` Yeah , but what're we gonna eat ? ?
`` Fella '' , Ernie waggled a dirty finger at the younger man , `` you try my ever-lovin' patience '' .
`` Hot dogs , man .
He ripped down the cellophane carefully , and laid three dogs on the tin foil .
`` A Kroger's self-serve '' , he explained .
When they had licked the last of the wieners' taste from their fingers , they settled back , and Cappy offered Ernie a cigarette .
`` How come you're riding the rods , kids like you '' ? ?
Cappy looked down at his wide hands , and did not reply .
`` Why didn't he want you to get hitched '' ? ?
This time even she did not answer .
Cappy's head came around sharply .
Ernie's eyebrows went up .
The girl still did not raise her eyes , but she added simply , `` I'm pregnant '' .
Cappy raged at himself .
Ernie nodded .
Oh crap ! !
`` Wanna drink '' ? ?
`` Yeah .
Ernie stared at the man .
`` You gonna give me a drink , fella '' ? ?
Ernie hesitated a moment .
He threw his head back , closed his eyes , and belched ferociously .
`` Well , now '' , he said , and reached into his pocket .
`` We're going to Philadelphia '' , Kitty said , pulling her skirt down around her legs all the more .
`` No , I don't think so '' , said the big man , and it was the final clincher for Ernie .
`` Maybe you and me will , girlie , but these two ain't goin' nowhere '' .
He advanced on them , and abruptly there was a shocked electricity in the car .
The newcomer stalked toward them , and Kitty shied back , her hand to her mouth .
The kid showed for an instant , and his arm was cocked back .
Then they were tumbling again , and the big man reached into the same pocket he had gone for earlier , and came up with a vicious switchblade .
He held the knife aloft an instant -- an instant enough to press the stud .
Kitty screamed insanely and her face was white .
They neither liked nor disliked the Old Man .
Yet if he were not there , they would have missed him , as they would have missed the sounds of bees buzzing against the screen door in early June ; ;
They never called him by name , although he had one .
The only thing unusual about the Old Man had long since happened .
`` But she shouldn't have come here in the first place '' , the women had said .
`` No , no .
`` Eh , Torino ! !
`` It's not for making pretty speeches about Dante those actresses get paid so good '' .
`` Henh '' ! !
But if the Old Man even thought about his wife now , nobody cared a fig .
Perhaps he had known then where that hundred dollar bill had come from and where it was taking his wife .
There seemed to be a contemptuous purpose in the way he sat there with his eyes glued to Drexel Street and his back in opposition to the church behind him .
Sameness for the Old Man was framed in by a wall of ginkgo trees which divided these quarters from the city .
Even the stable-garage , which housed nothing now but the scent of rot , had a lawn before it .
Only one house on the street had no lawn before it .
Yet everywhere else sameness was stucco and wood in square blocks -- like fortresses perched against the slant of the hill , rising with the hill to the top where the church was and beyond that to the cemetery .
The Old Man silently fed upon these streets .
The Old Man's son threw himself down , belly first , upon a concrete step , taking in the coolness of it , and dreaming of the day he would be rich .
He was named Pompeii as a tribute to his heritage , and he couldn't have cared less about that either .
When he would be a man , he would be a rich man .
`` Hey , Laura '' ! !
Laura did not answer him .
Her face showed no sign of having heard Pompeii .
Pompeii called again , `` Laura '' ! !
`` She's in a mood '' , he thought `` There's not a month she doesn't get herself in a mood '' .
Well , what did that matter when the sun was shining and there were dreams to dream about ? ?
Suddenly he was interrupted in his daydreaming by a warm wetness lapping against his chin , and his eyes opened wide and long at the sight of a goat's claret tongue , feasting against the salt taste of him .
`` Christ sake , goat , git '' ! !
`` You're boiling milk , ain't you '' ? ?
Above him slid the evasive shadow of a storm cloud .
The Old Man near the corner let the shadow pass over him , sensing something portentous in it .
In the meantime , six sandals , stained an ocher , the same color as Pompeii's shaved hair , edged up close to him .
He knew at a glance that the biggest sandals belonged to Niobe , the neatest ones to Concetta , and the laced ones to Romeo , Concetta's idiot brother .
People came in and out all evening to see the baby and hold it .
Little Anne rapidly outdistanced her mother in recovery .
She was so heavy that Maggie's arms shook from lifting her and taking care of her .
In desperation Maggie consulted Eugenia one afternoon : `` Do you think you could find me something I could do here at home to make some money , so I could still watch the baby and do the rest of the things '' ? ?
`` It seems to me you have enough to do as it is '' , Eugenia said .
`` I have plenty of odd moments when I could be doing something '' , Maggie said .
`` I should think so '' , Eugenia said .
`` She's so beautiful , and I do like to keep her looking nice '' .
`` She'll be just as beautiful in something that doesn't have to be ironed '' , Eugenia said .
`` Evadna Mae Evans got all her baby clothes from Best's Liliputian Bazaar in New York , and I'm sick and tired of hearing about Evadna Mae Evans '' .
`` Well now , Maggie , you don't have to snap at me '' , Eugenia said .
`` I'm sorry .
`` Well , let's see .
Maggie started laughing , and she laughed so hard she couldn't stop , and she kept on laughing while she lugged the clothes out to the yard to hang them up while the sun was still shining .
`` I have here that you could run a nursery of your own for working mothers '' , Eugenia said .
`` What else '' ? ?
`` You might set up a dress shop in the living room '' .
`` Every woman in the block has tried that '' .
`` What about a tea room , then ? ?
`` It's too elaborate .
Eugenia sighed .
`` Oh , I'm sure I could do that '' , Maggie said .
`` Don't worry , I can get plenty more '' , Eugenia said , wondering where in the world she could .
`` What are you going to do with your feet so you don't waste anything '' ? ?
Maggie laughed .
`` What '' ? ?
`` I wish I had three wishes '' , Maggie said .
It grew bitterly cold toward the end of November , contributing to the miseries of countless numbers of people .
The jobless huddled in the streets outside of employment offices , outside newspaper buildings , in parks , in relief lines , outside government agencies .
The government offices were being opened but they weren't being opened fast enough and meanwhile the cold penetrated everything .
Something had to be done ; ;
Something had to be done about the furnace , the fuel bills , the washing machine , the doctor and dentist bills , about making money stretch for food , for the mortgage , for taxes , for shoes , for half soles , for overshoes , for clothes , for the new leaks in the roof , for gas and light bills ; ;
The Abernathy furnace consumed fuel like a giant ravenous maw that had to be appeased by hurling tons of coal into its evil red depths , and no matter how much coal they put in the house remained cold .
The pipes burst and they all laughed and stood in ice water to their ankles while they swabbed the bathrooms .
`` You said a mouthful '' , Eugenia said grimly .
`` Plenty of people are poor all their lives '' .
`` Plenty of people haven't our brains and talent '' .
`` I know you when you start talking about brains and talent '' , Maggie said .
`` The only thing that worries me is how I'm going to prove it '' , Eugenia said .
They begged Grandma to let them put a bed in the kitchen for her , but Grandma said she was getting too old to sleep in strange beds and be seen with her teeth out , and that she hoped to die in privacy like a Christian and if the Lord willed it to be of pneumonia than it would have to be that way .
`` Thrifty of her to use it up .
`` You can joke ! !
`` I read it , yes .
Laban had more to say .
`` Pictures '' ? ?
`` In Brace's room ! !
`` Indeed you are ! !
Frank followed her into the bedroom , hooked her dress up the back .
`` Hurry , Frank ! !
She was so beautiful , so valiant , so pitiable .
`` I'll decide that when I get there .
Yes , oh yes .
`` Under the window in stormy weather
I marry this man and woman together .
Let none but Him who rules the thunder
Put this man and woman asunder '' .
Absolution for his lie ? ?
Reaching for an old clay pot , relic of pioneer days , he tore the envelope in pieces , dropping them into it , touching the little pyre to flame , watching it curl , the red sealing wax melting and bubbling in the feathery ash .
`` ' And let me go , for the night gathers me , and in the night shall no man gather fruit ' '' .
But there were great satisfactions , even for a small man .
Mr. Robards -- Jenny was the only person she knew of in the Mt. Pleasant neighborhood who called him that -- was kind but too easygoing .
He could put a stop to it , she told him again and again .
`` You could try .
He really hadn't meant to , he assured her , but it was plain to her that the importance of these small things was lost on Mr. Robards .
Another weakness -- far more irritating than his manner of speaking , which he made only token effort to change -- was his devotion to that old horse of Tolley's .
For the first few months of their marriage she had tried to be nice about Gunny , going out with him to watch this pearl without price stamp imperiously around in her stall .
Listening for hours to his laments that the war and `` Mist Fair's '' poverty afterwards had robbed the mare of many a racing triumph , and to his predictions of greatness for the procession of foals to come , Jenny could look forward to years of conflict with an animal who disliked her intensely and showed it .
Human birth was no novelty to Mr. Robards .
The chances were against his being here to humor her when her time came , she was sure .
Jenny wished now that she had had Dr. Dunne , feeling that somehow he wouldn't have allowed the dear baby to turn into triplets .
`` Kezziah , for Miss Kizzie '' , he suggested .
`` Why don't you name him Jesus Christ ! !
Roy was deeply distressed .
Doc Dunne and Miss Sis had come .
There was an idea .
It made him pretty hot under the collar , after the idea Miss Sis had given him , to be told by Miss Kiz that her holy spa was all reserved for this summer and next , if you please , and that much as she regretted it , they would be unable to entertain Mrs. Robards and the children .
He didn't tell Miss Jen , but she must have got word from the cook or nurse , who of course knew those Quinzaine nigs , and she really took a fit .
`` Have a party an' leave 'em out , hon '' , he suggested .
`` Don't you dare ! !
Miss Jen was funny that way , funny that she didn't seem to take to his ideas and perk up .
Zion was surprised when Roy's buggy stopped beside her on the pike one early summer day as she was walking home from the country school where she was teaching now that Eph Showers had had a call to preach in some mountain town .
Roy smiled -- he did have a nice smile -- took off his hat most politely , told her to hop in , and he'd give her a lift to Quinzaine .
`` See for yourself , Miss Zion .
`` Why of course not '' , Zion said uncomfortably .
`` He must have forgiven me '' , Henrietta murmured to the room .
She found herself wishing an old wish , that she had told Doaty she was running away , that she had left something more behind her than the loving , sorry note and her best garnet pin .
Henrietta thought , It's extraordinary how much she always knew about both of us .
Mama had died before the corruption of the family circle , the interruption of Charles .
But I would have gone anyway , thought Henrietta .
She turned on her side , finding the idea oppressive .
Impossible to imagine Adelia feeling so about anyone .
No temptation , no virtue ? ?
A curious thought to end a curious night .
Before anything else , she would go to Doaty's grave with flowers from Doaty's forgotten garden .
After the sad impatient moment , waiting for comfort which could not come , she slipped out of bed and went to the open window .
It was so pretty and artless that she felt like a child again and would have enjoyed running out barefoot to play on the wet grass with all the growing things , but Doaty never permitted bare feet and she was decidedly not a child but une femme d'un certain age .
Rosa , unbelievably , was not yet up and about , reassurance that Rosa was human .
Outside , the garden , the tame wilderness , yielded a patchwork bouquet of daisies , sweet william , scented stock and lady's bedstraw , which she tied with long grasses and took back to show Rosa , who was now stirring about the kitchen and haranguing Folly .
Henrietta held her bouquet out of reach and said it was for Doaty .
To a Blackwell , there was only one church .
An old man , sitting against the wall of a cottage and waiting for the sun to find him , gave her a more than reflective look as she passed , the sap still plainly rising in his branches .
He cupped his ear and shook his head at her repetition , announcing in a nettled way that he had heard her the first time .
`` I'm taking them to the cemetery '' , said Henrietta , out of a vague feeling of hospitality .
`` They'll be takin' me next '' , he said pleasantly , `` but not so soon's they plan .
`` It's nice of you '' , Henrietta said doubtfully .
`` Y're welcome '' .
Henrietta murmured that she could quite see how it would , and he nodded approval of her womanly good sense .
She did suddenly , through the link of memory with his father , old Titus , who must have been in his nineties when Henrietta ran away .
She said gently , `` Of course I remember you '' .
`` Not so well's I remember you '' , he said .
`` You do seem to '' , said Henrietta , impressed .
`` Can't blame a man for leavin' his wife '' , he said quite cheerfully .
`` Probably '' , said Henrietta dryly .
He gave a short hard laugh and looked at her knowingly .
She started to move away , just as a woman came out of the cottage , a big-boned , drab-haired figure with a clean apron tied over her limp print dress .
`` Y'r dam' porridge is no breakfast '' , he said .
`` He's lowly today '' , his grand-daughter said wearily , and bent to pick it up .
`` It ain't an idea '' ! !
`` If it ain't an idea '' , she said , `` how comes it you can drink beer but not water '' ? ?
He looked piously to heaven and said , `` Beer don't affect the tissues none '' , and the ingenious hypocrisy of this defense pleased Henrietta so that she forgave him his stint of malevolence .
His grand-daughter sighed .
`` To the graveyard .
`` Not me .
Henrietta nodded .
The woman ( she must have been a tiny baby when Hetty and Delia had stood arm in arm , watching great age grow small ) answered the nod with her own .
There was a gabble of voices from indoors , young hungry sounds like cats after fish , and a burst of swearing from the old man .
At the edge of the field , the wild rolling land took over , dotted with fat round bushes like sheep .
The air was full of sounds too but placid ones , a terrestrial humming as much out of the earth as out of the blue sky .
Both church and graveyard were smaller than she remembered them ( how many things had lessened while she was gone away ) but the headstones had grown so thick in thirty years that to find one named `` Dorothy Tredding '' seemed suddenly impossible .
She sat down on the nearest , fallen with age and gray with sea-damp , her fingers tracing the indecipherable carved letters padded with green moss .
She remembered , suddenly , a night of savage moonlight and scudding clouds when she and Adelia , having dared each other , had stolen out of their great safe house and come here , hand in hand , hoping and fearing ghosts .
The Momoyama family had come from Miyagi Prefecture , in the northeast of the main Japanese island of Honshu , where there are still traces of the mysterious Ainu strain .
Tommy Momoyama was one of these fortunate occasions .
She had been in Japan just one week .
There was nothing wrong with her job .
But she suffered in her off-duty hours .
She felt , rather than saw , the approach of the good-looking young man .
Then the young man in the brown sports jacket spoke , and it was no different .
`` Harro , girl-san '' ! !
`` I beg your pardon '' ! !
The nice-looking young officer fell back on his heels , open-mouthed and blushing .
`` Oh -- I'm sorry ! !
`` Oh , yes -- you had ideas '' ! !
`` Uh -- sorry '' ! !
It hadn't been this way in college , or in nurses' training ; ;
She looked around , self-consciously .
And so she was , and would remain .
One thing was becoming increasingly sure .
Now there was raucous male singing from the Fleet Bar .
Then , after a while , she went to her mirror .
There was a letter to write to her mother , and she tried to make its tone cheerful .
Tommy , of course , had never heard of a kotowaza , or Japanese proverb , which says , `` Tanin yori miuchi '' , and is literally translated as `` Relatives are better than strangers '' .
Actually , this is only another way of saying that blood is thicker than water .
Doc Doolittle's scheduled appearance at captain's mast was a very unusual thing , because the discipline dispensed there is ordinarily for the young and immature , and a chief is naturally expected to stay off the report .
The lieutenant was not entirely wrong in the belief .
Doc had been under restriction to the ship since the Bustard left Subic .
A telephone line had been hooked up to connect the ship with the Base exchange .
`` Well , Doc , you old sonofabitch '' ! !
`` I'll be there , but I'll walk '' , Doc said .
He threw a smart salute at the gangway , went up the dock , and turned down the wide street in front of the Petty Officers' Club .
How , he wondered , does one enjoy one's spare time ? ?
The telephone rang .
`` You missed it '' , Buzz's voice said , `` You should have gone over to the Pagan Room with us .
`` Hi , Buzz '' , Owen said .
`` Tough '' , Buzz said , `` Listen , we're having a stag dinner over at the Pagan Room on Friday .
Owen wanted to be pleasant because Buzz worked the territory next to his , but he hadn't come to Reno for stag dinners .
Buzz was a tireless instigator who never let his victims rest .
`` Yes '' , Owen called out .
`` I'm Mrs. Gertrude Parker '' , a soft voice explained , `` And I'd like to talk to you for a few minutes , please '' .
Ahah , he thought , a lush divorcee at last .
`` How do you do '' ? ?
`` Oh '' ? ?
`` You see '' , she said , looking past him into the room , where the highball glasses sparkled dully in the bright light , `` you and I can't understand the many hardships they have to undergo '' .
`` Why is that '' ? ?
She apparently wasn't satisfied with his reaction .
`` Have you ever tried to reason with an Eskimo '' ? ?
`` I don't know much about them '' , Owen admitted , `` but I suppose they have their own religion and they probably resent outsiders coming in and telling them what to do and what not to do '' .
She smiled in a sickly-tolerant fashion .
Forebearing , Owen kept his peace .
`` How did you get by the desk '' ? ?
`` Oh , I just come once a week .
`` Do you have any idea how far I travel every day ? ?
Mrs. Gertrude Parker drew back .
`` I didn't say it was Christian .
`` God , I take it , plays no part in this '' , she said waspishly .
`` God doesn't have any appliance or cosmetics '' , he said heatedly before he caught himself .
`` And whiskey '' , she said , smiling and blinking at the highball glasses .
`` You know '' , he said , getting a grip on himself , `` I think you're going to have to excuse me .
`` I can imagine '' , she said .
`` Leave a card or something .
`` I have no card '' , she said bitterly .
It took him about fifteen minutes to calm himself ; ;
He ate breakfast in a sullen mood , but afterwards , when he walked out onto Virginia Street , he felt braced .
Although it was only three o'clock , he stopped in at the Golden Calf .
The Golden Calf was dimly lit with shaded neon .
`` I wonder if they did eat each other at the end '' , Owen mused .
He sat down next to a heavily-upholstered blonde , but she was cleaned out in twenty minutes .
A dried-up cowboy sat down next to him in the blonde's place .
`` What are you playing '' ? ?
`` I'm just logging '' , the cowboy explained .
`` Nice to know you .
`` Well , of course I do .
Five came up while Owen was listening to The Wrangler and he neglected to play , a loss of ten dollars .
His adventurous spirit had waned ; ;
There was no cash around ; ;
He wondered if he might bag a tourist , but they looked frightened of him .
Owen found Buzz watching chuck-a-luck .
`` I'm allergic to Tahoe '' , Owen explained .
`` Well , okay '' , Buzz said .
Owen went over to the crap table and the dice were hot , but he couldn't pyramid with any consecutive success .
`` How's your luck , honey '' ? ?
`` I haven't had any luck since I was a baby '' .
`` Stake me '' , she said , `` and let me at those dice .
`` Let's have a drink and discuss a merger '' .
`` If you go broke '' , she said , smiling up at him , `` I'll leave you '' .
`` Sounds like real love '' , Owen said .
`` My name's Gisele '' , the blonde said after she ordered a Scotch .
Spencer said nothing .
`` Is there any word you would like to offer in your own defense '' ? ?
Spencer shook his head .
Alexander said , `` Answer me properly , Spencer '' .
Spencer was quiet for a moment longer , then he said , `` There is nothing I want to say , Captain '' .
`` Very well '' .
During the morning hours , it became clear that the arrest of Spencer was having no sobering effect upon the men of the Somers .
`` What is the next step , Captain '' ? ?
`` More arrests , I fear '' .
In your opinion , who is this E. Andrews on the ' certain ' list '' ? ?
`` Cromwell , of course .
There was a tap at the door and Oliver entered with the word that Heiser wished to see the Captain .
`` Have him come in '' .
Heiser , breathless and wild-eyed , brought the chilling news that the handspikes , heavers and holystones had been mysteriously removed from their customary places .
`` And also , sir , two articles which were considered souvenirs now must be regarded in another light entirely .
`` Where did you gather all this information , Heiser ? ?
He was interrupted by a crash from the deck and sprang toward the ladder , with Gansevoort and Heiser behind him .
Adrien Deslonde hastened to Alexander's side .
And it was clear that Adrien was not mistaken , for both Small and Cromwell took no step toward aiding in the sending up of the new topgallant mast till Philip Spencer had given the signal to obey .
When the mast was raised , Alexander gave the order for Small and Cromwell to be placed under arrest , and now three figures in irons sprawled upon the open deck and terror stalked the Somers .
Spencer's potential followers were openly sullen and morose , missing muster without excuse , expressing in ominous tones their displeasure at the prisoners being kept in irons , communicating with the three by glance and signal .
In the tiny cabin , Alexander met with Gansevoort , Heiser and Wales to speak and to listen .
Gansevoort said , `` It requires an omniscient eye to select those if any on whom we can now rely .
`` Well '' , Heiser ventured , `` why don't we hold an investigation with questioning and '' --
`` That would be worse than useless '' , Alexander broke in .
Wales said , `` Of course they would .
`` That is extravagant language , Mr. Wales .
`` Of course , I agree with the Captain '' , Gansevoort said thoughtfully , `` but the conspiracy is ferocious and desperate .
`` We ourselves must stand sentinel '' .
And when he was alone again in the cabin , Alexander lowered his head into his arms and wept , for he knew full well what must be done , what in the end would be done .
Where had he failed ? ?
And after a while , he dried his tears and walked the deck as a captain should with assurance and dignity .
He said , `` Captain , may I speak , please ? ?
`` Are you , Cromwell '' ? ?
`` Yes , sir .
`` You are the only man aboard who can be in doubt '' .
`` I cannot speak for others , sir , but I am innocent '' .
`` No , Cromwell , I did not find your name .
Now Spencer , seeming with effort to shake himself from lethargy , spoke .
Alexander shifted his gaze to Spencer .
`` Spencer , if there is guilt , if you do not deny your own , how is it possible for Cromwell to be innocent ? ?
The hazel eyes met Alexander's .
`` And do you think there is a reason why I should accept your word '' ? ?
`` Yes .
`` Nothing to lose , either , Spencer '' .
`` That's true '' , Spencer agreed and withdrew himself from the conversation .
`` I am innocent , Captain '' , Cromwell said again .
And though it was logical that a man who could plot mass murder would not hesitate to speak an untruth , still it was difficult to understand why Spencer spoke only for Cromwell .
`` I thought '' , Midshipman Rogers had told Alexander , `` that Spencer was teaching him geometry '' .
It was fantastic to turn from the seven men in shackles to the wardroom , where a class of apprentices awaited him .
Rachel steered me along toward a school for young boys beginning to study the Torah .
A young man appeared out of a side alley and walked toward us with quick strides .
Rachel had seen me watching the young man .
I swallowed hard and looked down at my feet plodding along beside Rachel .
Little boys crowded together on long wooden benches , and in the center of the room sat the teacher .
One boy who rocked back and forth over his worn book had bright red hair and freckles .
I shuddered and backed out of the room .
I said , `` How long do they keep that up '' ? ?
`` All day '' , she said .
I rubbed my hands together .
Rachel said , `` He asks for money '' .
She passed by him .
I grinned at Rachel .
She smiled to herself .
I was amazed .
Rachel faced me .
I said quietly , respectfully , `` What did she do here ? ?
Rachel clicked her tongue behind her teeth .
I said quietly , gaining nerve , ready to ask any question at all , no matter how intimate , ready to be rebuffed , `` Then why did she leave Israel ? ?
Rachel clasped her hands together and slowed her pace .
`` Yes '' , I said .
Rachel gave me a direct , bright-eyed look .
`` And I'll take you with me '' .
`` What did I imagine '' ? ?
And I'll take you with me .
And Gratt Shafer would be in Memphis today for the wedding rehearsal and then tomorrow he would marry just like everybody knew he would , just like everybody knew all along .
And I'll take you with me .
`` Damn the world '' , she thought .
She glanced at the man nodding beside her , a man with weather cracks furrowed into his lean cheeks , with powdery pale eyes reflecting all the droughts he had seen , reflecting the sky and the drought which must follow now in August -- yes , with eyes predicting the drought and here it was only June , only festival time again and thoughts of Gratt Shafer would not leave her .
Back at the Factory-to-You with the other old maids , back there she was the youngest clerk and she was thirty-four , which made her young enough to resent the usual ideal working conditions , like the unventilated toilet with the door you had to hold shut while you sat down .
And the hours were six-thirty in the morning until eleven at night on Saturdays and during sales , and there were no chairs and you couldn't smoke and the cooling was overhead fans and there was no porter or janitor .
Among us , we three handled quite a few small commissions , from spot drawings for advertising agencies uptown to magazine work and quick lettering jobs .
As for Donald , he actually sold paintings .
Attending the life class was my idea -- or rather , Askington's idea , but I was ripe for it , and the other two wouldn't have gone if I hadn't talked them into it .
I had a long talk with him .
In the course of our talk , Askington mentioned that he spent part of each week studying .
He made a circle with his thumb and fingers .
`` What do you study '' ? ?
`` I'm studying anatomy with Burns '' , he replied .
`` Osric Pendleton '' ? ?
`` Not quite '' .
`` Yes , it sounds great '' , I said , `` but suppose you don't think of yourself as an impressionist painter '' ? ?
`` You're missing the point '' , he said .
He could certainly talk .
In a way , Askington was right .
No , that isn't quite fair .
Such a little thing to start with -- the car registration .
`` Ida , where is the car license '' ? ?
`` Via must have it '' , I answered readily enough , recalling her last visit .
`` Via '' , she was frowning .
Had she forgotten she had signed the car away , that whatever they mutually owned had been divided among the children ? ?
I was silent .
`` I drive my own car by courtesy of Via '' ? ?
`` I'm sure she'd turn it over to you , if you'd rather .
She looked as if she were accusing me of some fraud .
`` She must have taken the registration when she went to Walter's .
`` No , thank you .
Why should this suddenly assail her ? ?
`` What a fool I've been '' , she said quietly .
`` It narrows down down down and finally there is no way out .
I suppose I should have paid attention to that half-murmured remark , but it seemed one of those extreme statements women under stress indulge in .
At last , I thought , she's recovering her spirits .
It was foggy that evening , but the path to my house was so well grooved that I could feel my way , accustomed as I was to the dense mists that rise from the sun-warmed palisades of the river and sometimes last for days .
I did notice a twinkle of light from the big house through the woods but as I had left a light on in my own house because of the fog I assumed Mrs. Salter had done the same before she left for town .
But the next day -- Sunday .
Dolly Engisch was waiting there on the steps and she came running toward us .
`` She's nowhere , nowhere '' ! !
The search began , in all the rooms , running upstairs , down , opening closets , talking , exclaiming in rushes and gasps .
Everything was as I had left it the night before last -- her portfolio and bag for town , her lingerie and dress and shoes laid out only her mink coat was missing .
Then the telephoning began .
Sitting in the kitchen I recalled every word Mrs. Salter said that could have been a sign to me .
I had made a habit of calling her at night from my cottage , just to check .
She was found the day after at the bottom of the cliff .
But I didn't really think it was as simple as that , nor did anyone else .
Everyone stared at me and drew back .
At the same time that I thought I understood her at long last and pitied her , underneath this knowing had there burned unquenched by my pity a fire of hate , an enduring envy that burst out in that ghastly outcry ? ?
It is not their avoidance that rankles ; ;
`` We all feel guilty '' , I turned away from her coldly .
`` What do you mean '' ? ?
`` Why put such a high value on being top dog '' ? ?
But suppose she had not taken Mrs. Mathias' advice and lived on like thousands of women in towns , dispossessed of love , hanging on to makeshifts , and altogether and finally arid .
Yes , I had cried out that I knew she'd do it , but without my fully realizing it at the time , it was a cry of triumph for her , praise at her deliverance from pettiness and greed -- and guilt .
Mr. Salter came home .
The coffin stood on trestles in a corner of the long low dimly lit funeral parlor , on its dark shining surface the sheaf of white roses I had ordered .
Via was in the parking lot when I went outside .
By the time we arrived and entered the building sacred music was already swelling out into the chapel-like auditorium with its discreet symbols of religious faiths .
`` I had a rather small place of my own .
`` Uhhu '' , she said , hardly listening as she studied her left eyelid .
`` And then I had another place farther downtown I used as a studio '' .
`` Uhhu '' .
`` I'm not a man who has many close intimate friends , Carla '' , he said , wanting her to know all about him .
`` Me '' ? ?
`` Did you make friends easily '' ? ?
`` Umm , uhhu '' .
`` Somehow I imagine that as you grew up you were alone a lot .
`` I guess so '' , she said taking a Kleenex from her purse .
`` Are your people still alive '' ? ?
`` What is this '' ? ?
`` I'm not trying to worry you '' .
`` Well , all right then '' .
The cleansing tissues she had been using had been falling on the floor , and he got up and picked up one , then another , hoping she would notice what he was doing .
`` What's the matter '' ? ?
`` Nothing .
`` Are those the only shoes you have , Sam '' ? ?
`` What's the matter with them '' ? ?
`` The heavy thick soles .
`` They're an expensive English shoe for walking around a lot .
`` Sam , no one around here wears such heavy soles .
`` Maybe I could '' , he said , surprised that she could turn from herself and notice anything about him .
`` And I don't know why you want to go on wearing that outfit '' , she said , making a face .
`` What's the matter with it '' ? ?
`` Oh , Sam .
`` I don't mind at all '' , he said , delighted with her attention .
That day they loafed around , just getting the feel of the city .
He had never heard so many bells , and as he lay there listening , he thought of her scolding him for his remarks when he had looked up at the obelisk and the church at the top of the Spanish Steps .
`` Carla , wake up '' , he said shaking her .
`` Uhhu '' , she muttered .
`` Come on , you'll be late '' .
`` I think I'll sleep in this morning '' , she said drowsily , and as she snuggled against him , he wondered if she ever went to church .
A half hour later he got her up to go out for breakfast so the Ferraros , hearing them hurrying down the stairs , would think they were going to a late mass .
`` Since we're having coffee with them this afternoon '' , he said , `` I think I'll ask the daughter if we can pay her to come in every day to clean for us '' .
`` Why not '' ? ?
`` This afternoon let's take an air with them .
`` If you find it necessary , Sam , go ahead '' , she said , turning on the stair .
When they walked into the Ferraro apartment , the old lady , bowing and smiling , said softly .
A very great Pope , this one , the old woman explained , her black eyes sparkling .
Did Signor Raymond understand ? ?
But one night Dookiyoon moved in the direction of the women's lodge , where Shades of Night had gone to purify herself .
With the blue flesh of night touching him he stood under a gentle hill caressing the flageolet with his lips , making it whisper .
Seeing her come , he caught his breath , feeling his heart bounce in him , and turned away , afraid now .
He cried out to her , his back turned .
But she heard him go .
Elsewhere others heard and stopped and waited , the women peering from their lodges then gathering in small , curious clusters .
`` I shall call your father ! !
But the girl said only , `` Tell him I am here , that I have come '' .
But now with real anger at last , something proud and indignant , Early Spring stood like a she wolf before her den and cried , `` I will not shriek at you ! !
`` You bring only wickedness '' , she said and it was not to a child any longer but to another woman who had come to skirt her lodge with the cunning hunger of a wild animal .
`` Go take helsq'iyokom , your evil spirit , to the young boys '' , the woman said .
The other women had come close now , their voices murmuring together until they stood buzzing in an angry knot , their threats mingling , rising , nagging at each other , each trying to make her indignation and anger felt .
`` Go back to your lodges '' ! !
`` If you must flog someone , let it be her , your daughter .
`` Get into your hovel '' ! !
She retreated before the naked shame in the old man and the fury beyond it and sank into the darkness of her lodge where Walitzee stirred , mumbling , sitting up in a half stupor to say :
`` What worrisome thing happens ? ?
She said , `` There is nothing that concerns you here .
He sank back , sighing , and was soon asleep again .
Outside , the old man , beyond all the curses of the spirits his daughter bore , went to her and twisted the gnarled talons of his fingers in her hair and turned her and pushed her rudely ahead of him into the trees where the moon sent out a thousand arms .
She said to him , her father , `` How was I begotten , in pain or joy ? ?
She stared at the pale tracings on the tree , hearing her breath refracted from it , her face close and touching at time the rough edges of the bark .
Suddenly the lash stopped fighting the air and she heard Pile of Clouds say in his high , quavering voice :
`` Did you follow me to see my shame ? ?
Turning , the girl saw Dookiyoon standing between , his narrow shoulders unbent , his arms hanging long and resigned .
Then , without knowing why , she found herself running from them , fleeing wildly through the trees , dodging her own shadows until she came to a little hollow in the rocky ground with a big stone in the center behind which she knelt and hid , listening to the madness of her heart and wanting for once to cry .
For a while the young men waited outside the lodge of TuHulHulZote , glorying in his harsh language as he talked with himself .
They came out and held their games and races .
Walitzee was among them , and Sarpsis , and they wore red blankets which flew like broad wings in the air of their passing .
All the young men , Alokut among them , challenged them in matched racing .
Walitzee whitened his leggings with clay , knowing the girl watched from her place in the trees .
He and Sarpsis planned a great parade with the young men .
And so the sun came up again and for a moment its color was the young men's blood , shifting then into the full heat and outcry which ran with their hearts .
The ,
She was moving through a screen of hemlocks , in among the white birch and maples .
If I ever committed suicide , she thought , I would dive straight down from here -- and no one would find me for days .
She jumped out onto the flat expanse of rock and , seating herself , shook her short-cut brown hair and tilted her chin far upward .
She was thinking of Paul a few weeks ago , in the Easter holidays , with her at one of those awful Friday Evening Dancing Class parties her mother had made her attend .
George Rawlings remembered seeing the door open sometime during the night -- Millie , in a white robe , standing like a ghost at the threshold .
He was walking across to the bathroom .
He shivered , and then tore away the blood-soaked parts and wound the rest around his neck like a scarf .
What time was it ? ?
He was drinking another glass of water .
He entered the hallway .
`` Father , is that you '' ? ?
For a moment he felt like a thief discovered .
`` Uncle George '' ! !
He was trying to smile at her .
`` Gosh ! !
`` I -- I was just leaving here , Julie .
She was wearing some sort of gray blazer .
`` You're leaving '' ? ?
`` I'm going back to school '' , she answered .
`` No .
Her face seemed to float in an implausibly bright shaft of sunlight .
`` No -- nothing at all '' , he said after a moment's hesitation .
He leaned his head against the wood paneling behind him , but the vivid red images of pain inserted themselves against his eyelids .
`` I have to say good-bye upstairs .
`` As a great favor , Julie '' , he said , `` please don't mention you've seen me '' .
`` Not to anyone '' ? ?
`` No -- please .
`` All right '' She was staring at him .
`` I'm fine , Julie .
She had disappeared .
He could hear the footsteps overhead .
`` I'll take that , Julie -- for you '' .
`` Oh no '' , she said .
She went ahead of him .
We'll drop Mr. Rawlings off in Ardmore '' , Julia said , and for the merest second George was reminded of her father's tone with servants .
`` I wish I didn't have to go back to school '' , she said , and then , `` I wish you lived in New York .
`` I wish I did '' , he responded .
`` Forget we ever knew what '' ? ?
`` Oh , just sort of everything in general '' .
She said nothing until Pietro had slackened their pace .
`` Does it '' ? ?
His voice seemed thick and purposeless .
`` Are you positive you'll be all right by yourself '' ? ?
For a moment he smiled .
`` Take care of yourself then '' .
`` I will .
It was an automatic phrase ; ;
`` I bumped into a door handle '' , George said .
Someone laughed .
He was telephoning .
There was one more call to make .
`` Joan , did I wake you '' ? ?
He had put down the receiver .
`` They make us conformists look good '' .
`` That's a peculiar way to think '' .
`` Come , come '' , Jim said , jollying Lucy a little .
Lucy listened .
`` She'd better step on it .
Lucy did not believe him ; ;
`` Darling '' -- she said , and the single word mingled love and exasperation in an equal blend .
Leaving Cathy with them , Myra had gone out to the Coast for a supposedly brief visit ; ;
For an otherwise silent moment , Jim's keys jingled nervously in his pocket .
`` It depends on the widow '' .
It was not that she disliked Cathy .
`` I wouldn't even be surprised '' , she said unhappily , `` if Myra tried to leave her with us forever '' .
`` That's a horrible thing to accuse her of '' ! !
A startled piping sound returned .
`` Don't yell at Susan '' , Lucy said .
Jim turned back from the stairway and looked at her .
But they weren't just friends , Lucy thought ; ;
`` Well , at last '' , she said , because Susan was clattering down the stairs .
Susan looked like an overwhelmed baby nurse ; ;
`` Do you need that big bundle '' ? ?
Susan stared at him with hurt blue eyes that gushed an instant grief ; ;
`` Now , now '' , Lucy said , approaching Susan with a handkerchief , mopping skillfully .
Jim groaned , but he lifted Susan's suitcase and said , in a gentler tone , `` Sure -- the entire thousand .
`` No '' , Susan said , grappling with her outsized armload of dolls with a Scrooge-like effect .
And at this point , Lucy thought , there should be a lecture on little cousins' sharing dolls -- but she could sympathize with Susan ; ;
That was one more reason she didn't look forward to Cathy's visit , short or long ; ;
`` Well '' , Jim said , out of the silence , `` let's get going , dolls and all '' .
When the car , with Susan's hands waving wildly from the rear window , disappeared down the driveway , Lucy stood looking after its pale dust .
At the feeding station , the raffish group of cowbirds again bobbed and gobbled over the ground , but now , gorgeous among them , was a beautiful red cardinal , radiant in its feathered vestments .
Well , Lucy ? ?
In the sunshine of late afternoon , Lucy stood looking at the ready guest room .
Out in the hall , the upstairs phone shrilled , and the small ghost vanished .
`` Websterville Junction calling '' , she said .
`` I can imagine '' ! !
`` Subdued .
On her way to the airport , on her way to Paris -- you bet , Lucy said to herself .
There was a momentary pause , and then her mother said , `` How long is she supposed to stay '' ? ?
`` Just for a couple of weeks , till Myra finds a place for them '' .
`` Well '' -- This time there was a long silence , while the telephone hummed faintly with a voiceless life .
Puzzled , Lucy stared at the flowered wallpaper ; ;
Suddenly , seekingly , Lucy asked , `` Mother , do you know something I don't know '' ? ?
Again there was that curious pause , and then her mother said , `` I guess I do .
Shocked speechless , Lucy sat there .
For a moment , anger darkened the hallway about her , and when she found her voice , anger thickened it .
As she hung up , she saw through the hall's open window the purple-black flying of the cowbirds' wings , and heard their grotesque singing .
Cathy is tired , Lucy thought , watching them come slowly up the path .
Unimpressed , the dog plopped on the sand .
Now they were in friendly territory .
Here was a perfect place to lie down and make believe .
He hadn't intended to make the promise .
He could remember the feel of his father's big hands , the thump of his father's heart sending out signals -- regular , like radar .
`` How does he know ? ?
In the light from the bedside table his father looked so worried that the promise spilled out .
Victoria was fourteen months younger than Quint , a head taller , and could lick any boy or girl on the beach .
`` She's got a nerve '' .
`` Goolick , goooolick '' , creaked a sea gull .
`` Aw , shut up '' , he said .
He stood on the rock , a skinny , dignified boy surrounded by the ocean .
I can't go in .
Shivering , he put on his clothes .
`` Watch it , big shot '' , a hoarse voice yelled back .
`` Why didn't you duck '' ? ?
`` Isn't '' .
`` Is '' .
`` Isn't '' .
`` Is '' .
She was sore as a boil .
`` Sure .
`` Mister Big Britches , aren't you '' ? ?
`` I'm Mark Gordon Peters the Fifth .
`` Then why don't you stop squinting '' ? ?
`` I said Quint .
`` I can speak both kinds of Latin , smart aleck '' .
`` You shouldn't smoke so much '' , he said , unconsciously imitating Victoria's holier-than-thou voice .
`` I don't smoke '' .
`` Hell , yes '' .
`` If I was your mama , I'd wop your tail off '' .
`` My mother never wops me .
She seemed so unimpressed that he was obliged to roll up his blue jeans so she could see his brace .
`` Dingy-looking '' , was what she said .
`` Because maybe I won't have to wear it always .
She spouted a mouthful of water into the air .
Maggie had shaken himself awake and was licking the sand off his stubby whiskers and his long plume of a tail .
`` That's some dog .
`` Part collie , part wire-haired terrier '' .
`` Holy mackerel , that's the most unique dog I ever saw '' , she said firmly .
`` His real name's DiMaggio , only we call him Maggie because he has to take tranquilizers .
`` A what '' ? ?
He would have told her , but Victoria was yodeling .
`` I gotta go .
`` So do I .
That was how they started being friends .
`` You going to marry the King '' ? ?
`` Which continent '' ? ?
`` Name one , I been there '' .
`` Really '' .
`` Books are for schnooks '' .
Nobody ever appreciated his jokes as much as Sabella .
`` Say , you're quite a comic '' , Sabella said admiringly .
He hadn't .
`` Better make up your mind , son '' , Sabella said .
Sometimes they argued .
`` Nobody gave me flowers before .
Sometimes they didn't talk at all .
Wednesday morning it happened .
`` Your Daddy's in San Francisco '' , she told them .
`` Yeah , keen '' .
`` Children , we'll have to get organized .
Quint closed the screen door quietly so Maggie wouldn't be scared .
The cave in his stomach hurt .
When Bobbie Evans smashed up his car , the Jaguar his wife Linda had given him for his last birthday , and himself quite thoroughly with it , driving back from an afternoon's golf at Oakmont , it seemed to mark the end of a long , miswritten chapter in the social life of the community .
Not that Linda was heartless , not that she would do anything prematurely or in bad taste any more than John Cooper would .
Wasn't John Cooper even more attractive at forty-seven than he had been twenty-five years earlier ? ?
Everybody knew that John Cooper had married Edythe on the rebound .
For it had been John and Linda ever since she had come out two seasons before at the Golf Club to the goggle-eyed admiration not only of the stag line but even of her fellow debs .
You saw them always together those years .
You still said `` John-and-Linda '' , but as if you were speaking of a national catastrophe such as the depression or Dillinger .
There was no connection between the two events , because Bobbie wasn't rich , either , though he was more aggressive than John .
Some people said Linda had just announced the engagement to jolt John into some action , but when John came home from a business trip to Cleveland with Edythe , with Edythe his bride , it could no longer be John-and-Linda even to sentimental wishful thinkers .
There was nothing specifically wrong with Edythe , but there was absolutely nothing right about her either .
`` Well , you shouldn't underestimate Edythe '' , Mousie said .
Bobbie and Linda looked magnificent at their wedding .
Edythe settled down to become a social myth and a horrible example .
There were less-dramatic reasons too .
John was good at his job .
But the continuing charm of the other children -- Sally in 1940 and Jack in 1944 -- and all John's success at his work only made Edythe's dizziness and general uselessness more glaring .
When there was bridge at Edythe's house , the cards shuffled like wet graham crackers and the food probably was wet graham crackers .
Being an intelligent man , John must have guessed what everyone thought about Edythe , but he never let on by so much as a brave smile .
The Coopers saw Bobbie and Linda socially , but no more than was necessary .
And then came the hairpin turn , the smashed Jaguar and Linda , mourning alone and lovely .
Everyone held his or her breath .
`` Don't think Linda couldn't have got John back any time , if she'd tried '' , Mousie Gordon , who had been Mousie Chandler , said between bites of a chicken sandwich at a luncheon table at Le Mont .
Linda Evans felt more wretched than she had ever dreamed Bobbie's death could move her to feeling .
She knew what people were thinking ; ;
There was no one who would blame her or John ; ;
Linda would have to wait , she knew .
Alloy steels and regular steels had different sales departments at Smith & MacIsaacs , where John and Bobbie both worked .
She was almost sick when Bobbie came home with the news that Poor John had won the job .
Bobbie said something about damned Pittsburghers sticking together , and Linda got angry at him .
Linda dragooned her uncle , Donald Murkland , into a lunch the next day to find out what had happened .
He didn't tell her of the long board meeting where Bobbie and John were weighed one against the other .
`` I'm behind John Cooper '' , Mr. Lovejoy said finally .
`` Now , I believe Poor John'll work just a little harder .
`` Bobbie will take the job as his just reward and work hard at it ; ;
Most of the directors nodded .
After the surprise was over , Linda was almost as pleased as anyone with John's good luck , though she agreed with Bobbie's decision some months later to move to Funk Furnaces .
Poor John's rise continued to be meteoric .
She called then to say she had a baby-sitter for that night .
`` That's swell '' , I said sweetly .
It was past midnight and we were in bed when the phone rang .
`` Janice , nobody answers at the apartment '' ! !
`` Oh , she wouldn't do that '' , I said .
`` I can't leave the party ! !
I was all set for what came next .
`` I can't make it in ten minutes '' -- Wondering , as I said it , why I should make it at all .
`` Fifteen minutes , then ! !
So sure that money could do anything ! !
Chris was sound asleep , and I didn't see any sense in waking him .
`` I'm -- hard to wake up '' , she faltered .
The phone started ringing .
`` Janice , would you mind staying '' ? ?
Not a word of thanks for what I'd already done .
After I looked in at Francie , I went into the living room and waited .
I had always thought she was so beautiful .
`` You're crazy '' , Wally said thickly .
`` You stay out of this '' , she spat at me .
`` you'd better simmer down '' , I said nervously .
`` Tea , '' Nadine screeched .
I clamped my hand over her mouth to stop the stream of filth .
`` Well then , I'll get out '' -- But she looked uncertain .
`` You go to bed '' , I said curtly .
She collapsed against me , as if everything inside her snapped .
I kept on being thankful .
Old Mr. Thom himself had stopped at the service station for a grease job , Wally confessed , and couldn't get one because there were cars on the pits waiting to be repaired .
`` And told him right to his face he'd never slept with a woman '' ! !
`` Things may smooth over yet '' , Chris said , his nice lean face grave with honest concern .
When A bubble breaks , there's nothing .
On top of everything else they were two months behind on their apartment rent , and the day Wally received written notice that he was fired , they were evicted .
Worst of all , Wally had no training for any kind of work .
Chris fretted .
I said I wished we were , too .
Something I had simply never thought of .
I just stared at him .
Straightened out -- They'd had years of making all that money ! !
`` That isn't like you , Janice '' , Chris said uncomfortably .
But , in the end , we did .
Then Wally got sick .
Chris made trip after trip in our old car , moving the clothes and dishes and the stock of groceries Nadine had bought on special .
While I worked , Nadine sat and cried .
It was a mess , all right .
But the two weeks dragged into three , and they were still with us .
`` You can get something , '' Nadine would snap .
`` The high school kids have got everything sewed up '' , he said , a whine in his voice .
`` By fall they'll be back in school '' , I'd say , trying to sound encouraging .
And I couldn't take six more weeks of this .
I don't really believe in intuition .
For the thousandth time , I wished I'd chosen some nice , nine-to-five , five-days-a-week profession .
Actually , I shouldn't complain , I told myself in the shaving mirror .
Especially in the way Gladdy had turned out .
As usual , Gladdy's bright smile greeted me at the breakfast table .
She'd been out with Pete the night before and her gay chatter about their date lightened my mood a little .
The boys were already waiting in the corridor outside my office when I got to Fairview .
There wasn't anything of special interest that morning , no one sicker than they should have been .
`` Got a new one in last night '' , he said .
I wasn't surprised .
The moment I walked in , the whole miserable feeling of the day seemed to focus on the woman in the bed .
I looked at the chart for reassurance .
Oh , could it be ? ?
In a low voice , Dick filled us in
she'd been picked up downtown , passed out in the doorway .
Turning toward the patient again , I -- I can't describe what happened to me then , except to say that I felt sick .
I never liked going straight into an examination with patients -- it relaxes them , I've always thought , to chat first .
`` Hey '' ! !
`` What's this '' ? ?
She shook her head .
`` Have you spoken to a doctor about it '' ? ?
Once again , there was a negative shake .
I was busy the rest of the day .
`` Well '' -- I didn't -- I didn't ever want to see that woman again .
`` If you can keep her here that long '' , Pete said wryly .
I grimaced in distaste .
We'd been standing right outside Miss Bancroft's door and as I went to turn the knob to enter , I was surprised to find that the door was slightly ajar .
Her eyes opened as soon as she heard me , though , and once again , I felt an inward shiver .
`` I've just been talking to Dr. Michelson '' , I said .
`` No '' .
`` Suppose you let me explain .
I was sure that was the difficulty -- she just didn't want to stay here , where she couldn't get to the liquor .
`` No '' .
I looked at her in amazement .
`` Will you tell me why '' ? ?
She smiled , a smile without humor .
I stared at her , almost speechless .
`` You haven't got cancer '' , I said as strongly as I could .
`` Don't give me a lot of talk , Joe '' .
I gaped at her .
She was watching me intently , a funny little half-smile on her lips .
I knew then , knew with a heart-stopping shock .
`` Alice '' , she echoed mockingly .
`` But why did you come back '' ? ?
She shrugged .
The way she spoke , her flat acceptance of her alcoholic blackout , made me shudder .
`` I never asked you for any favors , Joe '' , she went on , `` but I'm asking one now .
I looked at the pathetic wreck of a woman before me .
I was slowly swimming down to the bottom of the sea .
I no longer knew how deep I was , somewhere under 230 feet , getting drunker , happier and more contented by the second .
While a hazy part of my mind concentrated on swimming down , a clear part sorted over recent events , among them my only positive act in a long time .
Once before I had been to Paris , long before I married Valery .
All the women were beautiful , and the men were equal to them ; ;
I had champagne at Maxim's , then went into a cafe called the Jour et Nuit to ask the way to Montmartre .
When she had drained the last of the bottle and paid her bill , she came directly to my table and said :
`` Handsome soldier , I have assuaged one hunger with food .
`` Madame '' , I said with noblesse oblige because of the `` handsome '' -- `` yeah '' .
And so off we went to her apartment .
Now it was nine years later , and it wasn't spring but winter when I returned .
I got there on a Saturday evening .
All that day and Monday I drank just enough to orbit but not make deep space .
I felt better Tuesday evening when I woke up .
Sometime earlier the weather had turned cold and it was snowing .
Pretty soon a woman came along carrying a folded umbrella as a walking stick .
After a while she said with sort of an unuttered laugh , `` You have snow in your hair and ears '' .
Hardly glancing at her , I smiled a bleak one which said , Thanks , baby , but I'd rather be alone .
She was silent for a while , then said , `` Why are you so unhappy '' ? ?
`` I'm not unhappy '' , I lied , staring at the snow .
`` Is it a woman '' ? ?
`` Well -- women and unhappiness go together '' , I observed profoundly , adding , `` You can wager your derriere on that '' .
`` Ah , Monsieur , it is not my business to wager it .
This took me so funny I had to look at her .
She smiled at me , but it was an awfully sad smile .
Because I liked this sad person so much , I said , `` Will you have a drink with me '' ? ?
I could see the ancient cynicism reinforce itself in her eyes , and I wondered how many men she had picked up with this same gambit .
Anyway , I pulled a bottle of Remy Martin out of my topcoat , drew the cork , and passed it to her .
I could see she was shocked .
`` I'm sorry I haven't got a glass '' , I said .
`` Non , non '' , she said , taking the bottle , `` not for that be sorry '' .
She tilted up and drank , and then I drank .
There wasn't much light in the blue dark , but I could see her well .
We finished the bottle -- I hadn't had a lot out of it earlier -- not speaking much to each other , and we stayed sober .
I suppose we were cold , but we didn't feel it .
I sensed no stranger in her .
I think we were very tired , for we awoke at the same moment , deeply rested , surprised to see the late morning sun on the windows , which were wet where the rime had melted .
I felt wonderful , the absolute opposite of last night's melancholy .
`` Bon jour '' , I said brightly , sitting up , which pulled the covers to her hips .
`` Bon jour '' ! !
With a laugh she beat me to the bathroom .
`` The toothbrush Monsieur '' , he said , presenting it .
`` What is this for '' ? ?
`` Why , to brush your teeth '' .
`` But I already have ! !
`` Oh '' ? ?
We sat back comfortably on the bed with our last cups of coffee .
`` You are very tactful , do you know , Stephen '' , she remarked .
`` Um '' ? ?
`` Yes , because you didn't run off to use that new toothbrush '' .
I raised my eyes to look at her in the mirror .
`` I didn't really use yours '' , she went on .
To my immense relief , she changed the subject in the next sentence : `` Shall we go to the Louvre today '' ? ?
`` All right '' .
We were not rushed .
`` What is this from '' ? ?
`` A bullet '' , she answered .
We went to the Louvre for a few hours , then by Metro to a cabaret in Montmartre .
It was a nice place , not filled with smoke .
I fixed him with a steely eye and said , `` What's this for ? ?
I thought that was pretty humorous , but I didn't laugh .
Two letters had arrived for Miss Theresa Stubblefield : she put them in her bag .
An enormous sky of the most delicate blue arched overhead .
In the street the traffic was really frightening .
Something special was going on here just now -- the annual display of azalea plants .
Halfway up the staircase she stopped and sat down .
A few moments later her hands were trembling and her brow had contracted with anxiety and dismay .
She had reason indeed to wonder how the letter had managed to find her .
Cousin Emma and Cousin Elec , brother and sister -- unmarried , devoted , aging -- had lived next door to the Stubblefields in Tuxapoka from time immemorial until the Stubblefields had moved to Montgomery fifteen years ago .
She refolded the letter , replaced it in its envelope , and turned with relief to one from her brother George .
But alas George , when he had written , had only just returned from going to Tuxapoka to Cousin Elec's funeral .
Poor George ! !
As for Cousin Alexander Carraway , the only thing Theresa could remember at the moment about him ( except his paper knife ) was that he had had exceptionally long hands and feet and one night about one o'clock in the morning the whole Stubblefield family had been aroused to go next door at Cousin Emma's call -- first Papa , then Mother , then Theresa and George .
Now , here they both were , still the same , George full of round-eyed woe , and Cousin Emma in despair .
`` Of course ( George's letter continued ) , there are practical problems to be considered .
I really shouldn't have smoked a cigarette so early in the day , thought Theresa , it always makes me sick .
Theresa Stubblefield , still holding the family letters in one hand , realized that her whole trip to Europe was viewed in family circles as an interlude between Cousin Elec's death and `` doing something '' about Cousin Emma .
She arranged the letters carefully , one on top of the other .
`` Signora '' ? ?
She became aware that two Italian workmen , carrying a large azalea pot , were standing before her and wanted her to move so that they could begin arranging a new row of the display .
`` Mi diapiace , Signora , ma insomma .
`` Oh put it there '' ! !
I knew it as surely as everybody in Westfield -- that Lucille was a husband stealer .
Just as it has its Susan Dolan , though nobody'd ever bothered to tell me that .
They even talked about Lucille down at the Young Christians' League where I spent a lot of time in Bible classes and helping out with the office work for our foreign mission .
And so I was really upset the first time I discovered that my boy friend Johnnie was seeing Mrs. Warren .
He gave me a straight , honest answer .
I guess it was at that moment that I realized what I was up against in the person of Lucille Warren .
Johnnie was a trucker with a small lumber outfit in a town about twenty miles away , and he was also pretty good at anything in the carpentry line .
The most unbelievable thing about the chance meeting was that he seemed interested in me , too .
And now Lucille Warren had gotten a look at him .
I didn't like it one bit .
But he wouldn't ask her -- he wasn't the kind of man who would force his wife to submit to him against her will .
Johnnie loved me and wanted me .
Against my folks' wishes , we'd been seeing each other for short rides in the truck .
`` It's so crazy '' , I told him once .
`` And you fall for a lumber jockey '' .
`` Who drinks far too much '' .
`` And smokes too much '' .
`` And '' , I was ticking off the items on my fingers , `` swears too much and goes out with the boys , whoever they are , too much , and who ever goes to church and won't even listen when I try to persuade him to come back to the fold '' .
He examined his nails carefully .
`` Don't you dare '' .
`` And never show my face or my truck around here again '' .
`` You wouldn't '' .
`` Or I could visit Lucille Warren '' .
`` You wouldn't .
He shrugged noncommittally .
And now he was seeing her .
But what had I done , trying to keep us pure ? ?
So one week later , I surrendered to him in the little motel on Route 10 .
And , though at the time I blushed to admit it even to myself , there was in me a growing desire , a sexual awareness , that Johnnie had set in motion , an awareness that no other man had ever triggered .
Astonishingly enough , it was my own voice I heard there in the darkness , begging this man to make love to me .
`` Love me , Johnnie '' .
`` I will , kitten '' ! !
Outside , in the summertime fields behind the motel , a thousand crickets serenaded us .
`` Uh huh .
`` Mmm '' .
It was as blissful and fulfilling a night as any bride ever experienced .
`` Johnnie ? ?
`` It can't be wrong , can it ? ?
Johnnie rose on one elbow .
I took great comfort from his words , and smiled to myself in the darkness .
I felt no conflict between what I was doing and my strict religious upbringing .
I was practically a bride , after all .
There would have been a ceremony if it had been possible .
And I had no doubts about how true this love was .
And hadn't I rescued him from Lucille Warren ? ?
But I'd been a good girl and now God was blessing me with the gift of this magnificent man and the wondrous love we shared .
`` Love me '' ? ?
`` Uh-huh .
`` Always and always , Johnnie '' ? ?
`` Always '' .
`` Mmm '' .
Convention time in Boston .
I had mixed emotions about going .
The first meeting was held in Faneuil Hall , a great big place where we were able to meet members from all the other states .
After the meeting , there was going to be a party at someone's house .
`` Hey , there , beautiful twin of mine '' , Ronald said .
I couldn't help laughing with him .
`` Alma , Schmalma .
By the time we arrived , the party was already going strong .
`` I don't see Alma anywhere '' , I said .
`` She's invisible tonight .
I drew back .
`` Aw , come on '' .
`` No -- really '' .
He shrugged .
The kitchen was jammed .
Under normal circumstances , he had a certain bright-eyed all-American-boy charm , with great appeal for young ladies , old ladies , and dogs .
`` You share a refrigerator '' , Mrs. Kirby had said , and somehow , at midnight , after the long drive from New York in pelting rain , that had sounded reasonable .
It was still raining , and Mrs. Kirby's cottages bloomed through the gray haze like the names they bore , vivid blue and green and magenta .
This vacation had seemed like a good idea last week , when his doctor had prescribed it .
Charlie had accepted the diagnosis without comment .
Meanwhile , he had this miserable cold , and as he leaned against the refrigerator , watching the rain make sandy puddles at his feet , the doctor's prescription for lots of sun seemed like a hollow mockery .
He looked up to see Mrs. Kirby , awesome in a black-and-yellow polka-dotted slicker , bearing down on him .
`` I hope so '' , he said .
`` Ah '' .
Charlie forbore to mention that the wet was somewhat universal , Peony being less than weatherproof .
He leafed through the light reading provided by Mrs. Kirby for her guests : four separate adventures of the Bobbsey Twins ( At the Seashore , At the Mountains , On the Farm , and In Danger ) and several agricultural bulletins on the treatment of hoof-and-mouth disease in cattle , hideously illustrated .
His first thought was that Mrs. Kirby , in her mania for color , had dyed a cat and that cat had somehow managed to open the refrigerator door and climb in ; ;
Next morning , he found a note in the refrigerator .
`` Not onions '' , came the answer the following day .
Must have really smelled up her sweater , he thought , and wondered idly just why she kept the sweater fast-frozen .
Now , if this were Vivian next door to him and if , for some obscure female reason , she kept her clothes in the refrigerator , they would not be pink .
`` Why does this girl keep a sweater in the refrigerator '' ? ?
Eh '' ? ?
`` Oh , nothing .
`` Oh , yes .
`` I hope so .
`` So you said '' .
That pale kind , Charlie thought .
Surely there was a better word .
The sun , blazing hot as prophesied , was far from kind to Mrs. Kirby's varicolored properties .
The sweater was gone from the refrigerator , and in its place was a large plastic bag , full of wet pink clothes .
He got a red pill and a beer and then , on impulse , transferred the rest of his salami to her side of the refrigerator and scrawled `` Be my guest '' on the wrapping .
`` M-m-m .
`` I've got this cold '' , he wrote .
`` It's none of my business '' , said the next note , `` but my Aunt Elsie used to take lemon juice and honey in hot water for a cold , and she lived to be ninety-six .
`` I don't have a lemon '' .
By the next morning , she had turned the paper over .
Charlie grinned .
He stuck his head in Mrs. Kirby's little rental office .
`` You won't , if you're looking for a redhead .
He spent that afternoon on the beach , looking for a pale , browny-haired girl in a pink bathing suit .
At two that morning , he was still walking -- up and down Peony , up and down the veranda , up and down the silent , moonlit beach .
`` Of course I don't mind '' , she answered .
This was a very warm , sympathetic girl , he decided .
Charlie spent the next two days in his pajama bottoms , waiting for the fire in his back to subside , and used generous quantities of the hand lotion .
Correspondence passed back and forth .
`` How's your sunburn now ? ?
`` I'm not that anxious , but maybe that's why you're so fair '' .
`` That Mrs. Kirby ! !
`` Broiled out .
`` Puny goes with pale and peaked .
There was a crowd in the stands for a change and the sun was hot .
Phil Rossoff said : `` Why don't you leave him alone '' ? ?
`` Mind your own goddamn business '' , Mike Deegan said .
Phil shrugged .
In the last of the sixth inning Mike Deegan got up to bat and hit a fast ball over the left fielder's head .
Both fell heavily to the ground .
Only Mike got to his feet .
The Anniston players and their manager ran out on the field .
Mike Deegan was sitting on the bench , watching .
Phil Rossoff , seated next to Deegan , got up and moved to the other end of the bench .
The Anniston manager was coming over to the Riverside dugout .
The Anniston manager came right up to the dugout in front of Mike .
`` Deegan '' , the manager said , his voice pitched low , quivering .
`` For God's sake '' , Mike said , waving the manager away .
`` You didn't have to ram him '' .
`` That's what you say '' .
The Anniston manager looked at Eddie Lee .
The game started again and in the eighth inning Mike Deegan came up to bat .
The first ball the hefty pitcher threw came in for Mike's head .
`` Hit the bum '' ! !
In the Riverside dugout Frankie Ricco , shortstop , whispered into Phil's ear : `` There's gonna be a fight '' .
`` Look at those bastards '' ! !
Mike was slow getting into the box this time .
`` Listen '' ! !
`` I'll be waiting '' ! !
Mike Deegan pounded the rubber plate with the end of his bat .
Riverside and Anniston players rushed out on the field .
Phil Rossoff and two other Riverside players did not go out on the field when the fighting started .
After the game , Phil was taking off his sweatshirt in the dressing room when Mike Deegan came in .
`` It's a helluva thing '' , Mike said , looking at Phil , `` when a guy's own team-mate won't come out and help him in a fight '' .
Phil sighed and pulled the wet sweatshirt over his head .
Mike went over to Phil and stood over him .
`` I didn't think it was necessary '' .
`` Well ! !
Mike had a good two inches over Phil and Phil had to look up into Mike's face .
`` I didn't ask you to fight for the ball club '' , Phil said slowly .
`` You trying to say I started the fight '' ? ?
`` I'm not trying to say anything '' .
Phil turned away and opened his locker , and then he heard Mike Deegan say : `` You're yellow , Rossoff '' ! !
`` Phil , come into my office '' , Eddie said .
Phil followed Eddie into the office and shut the door .
`` I'm doing you a favor '' , Eddie said quickly .
Phil's eyes widened just a trifle .
`` The best thing for you to do '' , Eddie said , `` is go home .
Phil had to clear his throat .
`` No '' , Eddie said .
Phil stood up .
`` Sit down , sit down '' , Eddie said .
Eddie Lee leaned forward over the desk .
Phil shook his head and Eddie frowned .
Phil started to say something but Eddie cut him short .
Dazed , Phil said : `` I don't get it .
Eddie stood up abruptly , then sat down just as abruptly .
He's wrong ! !
`` I think you're wrong , Eddie '' , he said finally .
Eddie nodded .
Phil turned and left the room , hearing Eddie say : `` Someday you'll see I was right '' .
Phil shut the door behind him .
`` What happened '' ? ?
Phil said : `` I got my release '' .
`` You crazy '' ? ?
Phil shrugged .
`` What for '' ? ?
Phil sighed .
Frankie shook his head .
`` I don't know '' , Phil said .
They were silent for a few moments .
Phil started to take his clothes off and Frankie sat down on the bench again .
`` Don't take it like this '' , Frankie said .
Phil was very quiet .
`` What are you gonna do , Phil '' ? ?
Phil did not answer .
`` Why not try another club '' ? ?
Phil looked up .
`` Springfield's in tomorrow '' , Frankie said .
He just didn't know what he was talking about , saying a thing like that .
`` Will you do it , Phil '' ? ?
`` Do what '' ? ?
`` Ask Whitey for a job '' .
Phil nodded .
Frankie nodded .
`` I'll speak to Whitey '' .
`` Atta boy '' .
`` I'll talk to him , all right '' .
`` Don't worry '' , Frankie said .
`` I'm not worried about it '' , Phil said .
`` That's the way to talk .
`` Nothing '' , Phil said .
Richard's next interest seemed the product of his insularity .
At dinner one night , when he was fourteen , Richard announced , `` There is only one god '' .
`` Did you think there were two '' ? ?
`` You don't understand '' , Richard said gloomily .
Through quiet laughter his mother said , `` Don't speak to your father like that , Richard '' .
Richard seldom spoke anyhow and he didn't speak to his parents about religion again .
His interest in the formal study of religion waned when he was sixteen and he substituted for it an interest in Asian affairs .
Richard was a solitary student in New York and acquired , in his remoteness , a thorough if bookish knowledge of Asian lore , literature , life , politics and history .
The week at home was not comfortable .
`` Do you still have The Book of the Dead '' ? ?
`` Yes '' , he lied to shorten the conversation , `` I still have it '' .
Richard left America with his clothes , his biwa and his image of Acala and , on the freighter which took him to Japan , he plucked at the biwa , trying to make the sounds he wrought resemble an ancient Japanese tune he had once heard .
In Tokyo Richard took up a life similar to that which he had lived in New York , except that he had replaced his biwa with a friend .
At one such gathering Charlotte announced , `` I was at Ryusenji today .
Richard thought it a more promising remark than any made during the last conversation , but Charlotte's manner during the gatherings was more flippant and superficial than when she was alone with him and he was sure her remark would lead to nothing much better than the pointless words which had preceded it .
`` He wasn't the least bit disturbed by my watching him '' , said Charlotte .
`` Did you watch him '' ? ?
`` Well I was able to do it '' , Charlotte said with no sign of irritation .
`` I've heard about it '' , Samuel Burns said .
`` Yes , a little parkish place '' , Charlotte said , and concluded , `` Anyhow , it's all very nice .
`` My God , it was cold today '' , said Samuel Burns .
`` And the water would be still colder '' , Ceecee seemed to shiver at the thought of it .
`` And your golden god '' , said Samuel Burns , `` probably went right home and poured himself into a boiling bath .
`` But the point is '' , Charlotte said , `` there he was , freezing , naked in a little stream of water at Ryusenji , all in worship of Fudo , the god of fire '' .
Richard's dark eyes came up and seemed for the tiniest moment to reflect sharp light .
That night , after leaving Charlotte's apartment , Richard walked about for a time before returning to his room .
He was surprised by the sharp sensation he experienced as he approached the pool which Charlotte had mentioned .
He left the pool and climbed the steep stone stairs to the temple , and the sense of familiarity with the place would not leave him .
He seemed to have picked up a virus that day , because the next morning he had a small cough and felt a bit hot .
I was thinking of the heat and of water that morning when I was plowing the stubble field far across the hill from the farm buildings .
I almost ran over the snake before I could stop the tractor in time .
The snake slid slowly and with great care from the new ridge the plow had made , into the furrow and did not go any further .
I let the engine idle then , and I got down and went around the wheel and stood beside it .
You beauty , I said , I couldn't kill you .
The body caressed through my hands like cool satin , and my hands , usually tanned and dark , were pale beside it , and I asked it where the fire colors could come from the coolness of that body .
I felt good and satisfied , looking at the snake .
I got on the tractor again and I had to watch the plow closely because the field was drawn across the long hillside and even in that good soil there was a danger of rocks .
I saw it all at a glance .
Stop it , I shouted , but the lumbering and mighty tractor roared on , above anything I could say .
The boy waited at the corner , with the jar of water held up to me in his hands , and the water had grown bubbly in the heat of the morning .
I saw then , too , the stake driven straight and hard into the plowed soil , through something there where I had been not long before .
I stopped the tractor and climbed down and the boy came eagerly up to me .
`` No , you cannot '' , I said , pushing aside the water jar he offered to me .
`` Yes '' , he said , eagerly , beginning a kind of dance of excitement .
`` Why did you kill it '' ? ?
`` Snakes are ugly and bad '' .
`` This snake was very beautiful .
`` Snakes are ugly '' , he said again .
`` You saw the colors of it , didn't you ? ?
`` Snakes are ugly and bad , and it might have bitten somebody , and they would have died '' .
`` You know there are no poisonous snakes in this area .
`` They eat chickens sometimes '' , the boy said .
`` You are talking foolishly '' , I said .
`` They're ugly and I hate them '' , the boy insisted .
`` It was beautiful '' , I said , half to myself .
The boy skipped along beside me , and he was contented with what he had done .
The fire of the colors was gone ; ;
I wrenched the stake out , that the boy had driven through it in the thickest part of its body , between the colored diamond crystals .
I'm sorry , I thought to the snake , for you were beautiful .
The boy came around behind me , dragging the stake .
`` Don't you see what you have done '' ? ?
`` It's an ugly , terrible snake '' , he said .
`` Don't '' , I said .
Cady didn't come unglued easily , but this had not been a day of glad tidings .
Hanford realized he had enrolled his son four years ago .
Cady Partlow lit his pipe with no comfort .
He wondered if he had played it wrong .
It wouldn't help anyway .
Cady looked at his own son's scholastic record with pride .
He put down his pipe and started to type .
He stopped and looked at the picture of his son , the picture on his desk which had changed with the years from a laughing baby to a candidate for Hanford College .
He turned back to the typewriter with a little more confidence .
Mr. Partlow banged his fist on the keyboard , ruining the letter .
How do you tell a college president that your son doesn't know what he wants to do ? ?
How do you tell a college like Hanford that your son has a vast potential , that he will find himself ? ?
Cady snapped the Venetian blind shut and slammed himself down before the typewriter , rolled in a fresh sheet , and gave his letter the same savage attention he bestowed on a salesman who needed to have the bucket taken off his thick head .
What a production to make of a letter commending your own son ! !
He finished with a flurry of good wishes to Hanford College and signed the letter .
Better show it to Anne and see if he had omitted anything .
Yet the whole of Anne was something she had never learned in any college .
He whistled as he locked the office and grinned as he got on the elevator .
`` You look like you just heard a real gasser , Mr. Partlow '' .
Cady looked at Tom , who had taken him up and down for fifteen years .
Tom slid open the door to the lobby .
`` Going to State '' ? ?
`` No .
`` Oh '' , said Mr. Partlow , `` that's fine , Tom .
As he drove home through the thinning traffic , Cady felt the unease growing .
He suddenly realized when he walked into his own pretty darned expensive house that he needed the Martini Anne had waiting for him .
Nor did looking at Anne ease the tension as it usually did .
`` Board meeting tonight , Cady '' ? ?
`` No , I begged off .
`` Can I have the car , Dad '' ? ?
`` Why not let him take it , Cady ? ?
Cady , deep in thought , neither heard nor answered .
David grinned .
Cady Partlow's head came up like that of the proverbial fire horse .
Dave ate two pieces of pie as he did everything else , slowly , methodically and with interest .
Cady begged the question .
Dave shrugged on his sports coat and picked up the car keys .
Anne said it wasn't surprising because Charles was antisocial , a lone wolf , and completely one-sided .
Dave kissed her lightly .
Anne waited until the door had slammed and picked up the coffeepot .
Cady trailed her with the coffee cups and settled into his favorite chair in the comfortable book-lined room .
`` Wrong word , darling .
`` In a way , yes .
Cady handed her the letter , drank his coffee and waited with what he suddenly realized was belligerence .
`` I know you wrote this in a hurry , but , Cady , Dave was only acting president of the student forum for a few days .
`` But he was president '' .
`` And he wasn't really elected treasurer of the science club .
Cady stuck his jaw out .
`` And the swimming team .
`` A team is a team '' , insisted Cady .
`` Yes '' , she said quietly .
`` What do you suggest '' ? ?
`` Just say he likes swimming , tennis , chess and music '' .
`` Music ! !
Anne smiled .
`` You mean that rock-and-roll combo ? ?
`` Yes , he's just there .
Cady appeared slightly mollified .
Anne laughed and Cady felt the tension loosen its grip on the back of his neck .
Anne folded the worrisome document .
Cady felt the jolt as though he had stepped off the curb on his heel .
`` It's Dave who is applying to Hanford College .
For once Cady Partlow wished Anne would yell at him so he could yell back .
Anne picked up the towel she was hemming for the hospital guild .
Cady put the well-worn chip back on his shoulder .
He never will , Cady .
Cady walked the block to the mailbox , almost ashamed of himself for arguing with Anne .
Martin felt it was incredible that the situation had come to exist at all .
Lying awake at night , he could see them , laid out on the floor of his mind .
He had always been a messy and negligent man .
But it was fun those first days , kidding about the trail of garments he left littered across the rug .
He remembered the first time he saw her , standing across the room at a party .
So he sought her out , and spoke to her , and thought of his hand in her hair .
But , to put it bluntly , nothing snapped .
He saw later that they had made their marriage too quickly .
But , at the start , his new life felt invigorating .
It was on the tenth day after the wedding ( how could it have been so soon ? ?
`` Now , I'm not going to pick up those shorts '' ! !
Martin gave her a teasing pat .
In the morning the shorts were where he had left them .
He was wrong .
He saw that Dolores intended to wait until the last minute , thinking he would get nervous .
It rang .
Martin was standing a few feet from the front door .
He could not cross the living room , brush past her , and bend down to retrieve the shorts .
Martin turned his back .
Bill's hat was deposited in the hall closet .
At first he could not be sure .
All evening Anthea favored him with odd , coy looks .
Martin realized , later on , that he should have `` had it out '' with Dolores that night .
Suppose he ran up the white flag altogether ? ?
In his head was the echo of those titters with Anthea .
There was something about private feminine whisperings which always made him feel scabrous and unclean .
The battle had to be fought .
But his resolution hardly seemed to help .
It was curious how the different visitors took this .
`` It's a little contest Martin and I have '' , she would begin gaily , carrying the anecdote through a frothy and deceptive course .
Once Martin went along .
Never again did he enter into the ritual of showing the apartment .
They kept up a rigid pretense of speaking relations .
Dolores kept picking up any of his clothes ( except the fatal shorts ) which he left about , but he had been robbed of pleasure in scattering his possessions .
In his moments of worst agony , Martin imagined what his friends were saying .
He had thought her exactly what he wanted .
He was trapped .
Day and night Martin could not drag his mind from the dilemma he had made for himself .
When the solution finally came to him , one night while he was in bed , he was so shaken by its simplicity that he could only wonder why it had not occurred to him before .
In a frenzy of excitement , he considered his plan .
Beside his shorts , he would place something of hers .
Instantaneously he would have won an immeasurable moral victory , for if she picked up , say , a pair of her panties , she might just as well lift his shorts lying alongside -- the expenditure of energy was almost the same .
Martin guessed that Dolores would not be so eager to tell the next installment of her story .
Something in the back of his mind was aware that the magnificence of the plan lay in his faith , that the idea would work because he believed in it , since his courage and virility were involved , because it was truly his .
The next morning , while Dolores was out of the room , he went to her bureau drawer , took out a pair of nylon lace pants , and tenderly dropped them next to his shorts .
In a surprisingly short time , Dolores appeared .
They breakfasted together , but Martin did not refer to his triumph , and Dolores found a great deal to do in the kitchen , bobbing up and down from the table so that talk was impossible .
As he relaxed that day , Martin realized how tense he had been these past weeks .
`` Good old A-Z '' , Cap said .
Once it was , William thought .
A rush of memory swept him back , and he forgot Cap .
Mr. Willis bought Zenith Plastic Products , a skeleton corporation of sorts which had undergone many vicissitudes and whose principal assets were a couple of electronics plants on Long Island engaged in working out government contracts , and installed Freddy in an executive position .
Probably Mr. Willis was influenced toward deeper involvement by familial loyalty and a concern for his grandchildren .
Whatever the reasons , Willis and Bryan started expanding Zenith .
Feeling his power , Freddy looked for additional worlds to conquer .
At that point William came into the picture .
In the end , he said : `` I'm not enchanted by the proposition , sir .
Willis glanced at the bound pages given him and shrugged .
`` Yes , I appreciate that .
`` Which is a frightful prospect , Bill '' .
Not to William's surprise , Freddy , Adam and Hamilton Richert prevailed ; ;
He forgot about A-Z till , unhappily , he and Hamrick were proved correct .
Once more Willis summoned William .
William spent a long week end closeted with Hamrick .
They took nearly a month to investigate , marshal statistics , and put their arguments down in black and white .
`` Your alternative is breathtaking '' , he said , `` and , I'm frank in saying , a bit mad .
`` We'll be in there swinging '' , William said , `` but in a way , sir , you've got to decide it yourself .
`` I rather like the music '' , Willis replied quietly .
At the meeting , attended by Freddy , Richert , Herberet and the A-Z executive staff , with Mr. Willis presiding , William and Hamrick did indeed run the gantlet .
`` Oh , my God '' , Ham Richert said , `` a little child shall lead them .
`` It's absurd , Bill '' , Freddy said , from a pale face .
`` Your garden , God damn it '' ! !
`` I don't enjoy family quarrels '' , Adam said .
`` Hear me out , please '' , William begged .
He swayed them somewhat , but the debate raged on .
`` Nobody will underwrite it , I'm telling you '' , Freddy said .
`` There's plenty of risk money '' , Ham Richert added , `` but not for anything this risky '' .
`` All right '' , William said .
A silence fell .
`` I feel I must answer the question '' , he said , `` since the onus later , if any , should fall on me -- I don't relish recriminations spread broadcast outside my family .
`` All the in-laws have got to have their day '' , Adam said , and glared at William and Freddy in turn .
Sweat started out on William's forehead , whether from relief or disquietude he could not tell .
Spike-haired , burly , red-faced , decked with horn-rimmed glasses and an Ivy League suit , Jack Hamrick awaited William at the officers' club .
`` I'm afraid not '' .
It was among these that Hinkle identified a photograph of Barco ! !
Mills secured Barco's photograph from the gentleman in charge , rushed to the Hollywood police station to report the theft , and less than five minutes later , detectives with his picture in hand were on the trail of Cal Barco .
On their way , they stopped at every gas station along the main boulevards to question the attendants .
The detectives placed Barco under arrest and , without informing him of the nature of the charge , took him back to Hollywood for questioning .
Thus it was that Barco , apprehended for mere larceny , now began to suspect that one or another of his murders had been uncovered .
However while in his cell awaiting trial for theft , Barco , in a fit of apprehension , made an attempt to take his own life .
Then it was that District Attorney Welch entered the case .
It was reported to Welch's office that a thief in the city jail had attempted suicide .
`` Barco , we've got the goods on you ! !
At first Barco was evasive and shifty .
Welch summoned jail officials to Barco's cell .
`` Is that so '' ? ?
The next day the police captain , in derision , organized what he termed `` Welch's Wild Goose Chase '' .
Barco , his state of apprehension gone , never to return , had assumed a matter-of-factness which remained his principal attitude from that time on .
Orders were given to dig .
With quibs and gibes , the policemen again started digging .
`` There's something here '' ! !
Now did Welch truly become the man of the hour , and everything that followed in the procedure of Justice was a new triumph for him .
It was apparent that Welch was in cahoots with Marshall and would use his power as D.A. to drag every possible sensation into the case .
I knew that both these cynics were waiting with impatience for the dramatic moment when Viola was called to the stand .
I studied Welch closely as the trial progressed for any hint which might give me a lead as to how he might be thwarted .
One day over a year before , there had been a cocktail party in an apartment of a downtown hotel .
Naturally , Viola had no wish to remain , but she felt she couldn't leave so soon after her arrival , in all politeness to her host .
As Viola sat there , a playful impulse overcame her to remove the shoes and socks from the unidentified feet and , as a prank , insert rosebuds between the toes .
A little later the district attorney woke up , emerged from under the couch , looked at his watch , and realized he had an engagement that very hour to address a meeting of the Culture Forum on `` The Civic Spirit of the Southland '' , in the Byzantine room of the hotel where his wife , as president of the forum , was to preside .
The incident , aside from reflecting on Welch's political career , had all but wrecked his home life .
During these first days of the trial I didn't have as much time to commiserate with Viola as I should have liked .
Now the Czarship had not affected my own sense of social values , but Mother had attained a reflected glory through it , which had opened the doors of Los Angeles-Pasadena Society to her .
Mother even went so far as to trump up for me matrimonial opportunities with Pasadena debs who had been educated abroad , and with those of the more lenient Los Angeles area where a debutante was a girl who had been to high school .
However , such a hotbed of gossip had grown up during the trial , that every precaution had to be taken to keep my visit from being whispered to the world , Society , and even , alas , to my own mother .
When I arrived at Viola's I was shown , to my surprise , into the kitchen .
I sat and watched proceedings .
I realized that Hamlet was faced with an entirely different problem , but his agony could have been no greater .
I was saved from making the decision as the phone rang , and the girls were upon me instantly .
Jennie and Miranda twined themselves around me , murmuring endearments .
Speaking into the phone again and recognizing the caller , I resumed my everyday voice .
I discovered that the girls had shrewdly vacated the kitchen , and were playing quietly in the living room .
Resolving to get something done , I started in on the dishes .
Francesca and Herbert were among the few people we knew in Catatonia .
They were `` personalities '' .
They had bought their house in Catatonia after investigating all the regions of suburbia surrounding New York ; ;
`` You are bound to get involved with people when you have children '' , Fran had told me at our first meeting , `` so it is good to know that those with whom you get involved are not just dreary little housewives and dull husbands , but People Who Do Things '' .
I admired their easy way of doing things but I couldn't escape an uneasiness at their way of always doing the right things .
Francesca and Herbert considered themselves violently nonconformist and showed the world they were by filling their Colonial house with contemporary furniture and paintings and other art objects ( expensive , but not necessarily valuable , contemporary things ) .
No one could dislike them , I thought .
I wouldn't have wasted time puzzling over this couple were it not for my fear that all the other inhabitants of Catatonia were equally unreal .
After five minutes with Blanche , one might welcome the astringency of Grazie , who was a sort of Gwen Cafritz to Francesca's Perle Mesta .
The husbands of these women and others I had met in Catatonia were distinguished only in that they were , to me at least , indistinguishable .
`` O ! !
Becoming aware that it was nearly lunchtime , I brought myself back to the tasks at hand .
The cake was received in a stunned silence that was evidence in itself of the dearth of taste thrills Mama had been providing .
Needless to say , I was furious at this unparalleled intrusion upon free enterprise .
It was then that I availed myself of the rights of a citizen and declared the income tax unconstitutional .
Not only were the court costs prohibitive , but I was subjected to crippling fines , in addition to usurious interest on the unpaid `` debts '' which the government claimed that Metronome and I owed -- a severe financial blow .
Needless to say , my art suffered drastically during this turbulent period .
Having ( through my unflagging effort and devotion ) achieved stardom , a fortune and a world-renowned wife at an age when most young men are casting their first vote , Letch proceeded to neglect them all .
Yet I adored this man , Letch Feeley , why , I cannot say .
Between 1935 and 1939 Letch and I made ten films together , each less successful , both artistically and commercially , than the one before it .
In a rare fit of anger and spite , I `` farmed out '' my own husband to a small and most undistinguished studio to make one picture as a form of punishment .
Letch had returned from his debacle unrepentant and more badly behaved than before .
`` If I could only think of something at the studio , near me , to absorb his boundless energy '' , I said .
`` Bookies , booze and babes '' , Momma said bluntly .
Her reply stung me , but this was too important to let my hurt make any difference .
Up to date , however , his garden was still more or less of a mess , he hadn't even started his workshop and if there was a meadow pond in the neighborhood he hadn't found it .
It wasn't his fault that these things were so .
As a result , life had become a kind of continuous make-ready .
His dogs ? ?
Now it became increasingly apparent that there were to be no dogs in the picture .
It worried him , this inability to get the simplest things done in the course of a day .
Was it possible that as people grow older the nature of time changed ? ?
It might be that certain people were born with a compulsion to complicate their lives , while others could live blissfully motionless almost indefinitely , like lizards in the sun , too indolent to blink their eyes .
And then again perhaps the reason why he couldn't find time to do any of the things he had planned to do after retirement : reading , roaming , gardening , lying on his back and watching the clouds go by , was because he didn't want to do them .
He looked at the luminous dial of his wrist watch .
At least he could buy the equipment for his workshop .
`` There '' , said Mr. Mills .
He didn't even ask the cost of this collection .
He piled everything neatly in a corner of the cellar and turned to stare at the blank stone wall .
The old nightmare which had caused him so many wakeful hours came charging in on him once more , only this time he couldn't pacify it with a sleeping pill and send it away .
He turned his attention to the workbench .
Mr. Mills had done some figuring on a scrap of paper and given him the various kinds of boards and two-by-fours which , properly handled , would , he had assured him , turn into a workbench .
He went upstairs to phone Crumb .
There was a fellow named Blatz over Smithtown way .
Mr. Blatz had been at least sober enough to remember to telephone and he turned out to be the greatest boon that had come into Mr. Crombie's life since he moved to Highfield , in spite of the fact that he didn't work very fast or very long at a time , and he didn't like to work at all unless Mr. Crombie hung around and talked to him .
While Mr. Blatz was putting up the pegboards and starting the workbench , Mr. Crombie told him of this idea about paneling the whole end of the cellar .
`` Now '' , he said , `` we got to put in some outlets for them power tools ; ;
It all did look very efficient and shipshape .
Instead of being depressed by this news , Mr. Crombie was actually relieved .
`` Well '' , he said , `` got your man fixed up nice down there .
`` Oh , that's wonderful '' , cried Mrs. Crombie .
`` But those are the things I built the workshop for '' , protested Mr. Crombie .
`` I've been waiting to get these things done for months '' , she said .
Ambiguity
There are many types of ambiguity and many of them have been described by rhetoricians under such names as amphibology , parisology , and other ologies .
One species of ambiguity tries to baffle by interweaving repetition .
Another woman , addressing Christmas cards , said to her husband : `` We sent them one last year but they didn't send us one , so they probably won't send us one this year because they'll think we won't send them one because they didn't last year , don't you think , or shall we '' ? ?
Such ambiguous exercises compound confusion by making it worse compounded , and they are sometimes expanded until the cream of the jest sours .
Another case involves a newspaper reporter who tripped up a politician .
Questions like this , framed in verbal fog , are perhaps the only kind that have ever stumped an experienced politician .
The obscurity of politicians may not always be as innocent as it looks .
The misplaced modifier is another species more honored in the observance of obscurity than in the breach .
The `` wooden-leg '' gag of vaudeville , another standby of this sort , had endless variations .
`` There's a man outside with a wooden leg named Smith '' .
Another stock vaudeville gag ran : `` Mother is home sick in bed with the doctor '' .
When radio came in , it continued the misplaced modifier in its routines as a standard device .
`` Do you see that pretty girl standing next to the car with slacks on '' ? ?
In recent years gagwriters have discovered this brand of blunder and thus the misplaced modifier has acquired a new habitat in the gagline .
Journalism supplies us with an endless run of such slips .
Classified ads are also chockfull of misrelated constructions .
Since brevity is the soul of ambiguity as well as wit , newspaper headlines continually provide us with amusing samples .
Apart from misplaced modifiers and headlinese , journalism contributes a wide variety of comic ambiguities in both editorial and advertising matter .
A weekly newspaper reported a local romance : `` and the couple were married last Saturday , thus ending a friendship which began in their schooldays '' .
An item in the letters column of a newspaper renewed a subscription , adding : `` I personally enjoy your newspaper as much as my husband '' .
Then there was the caterer's ad which read : `` are you getting married or having an affair ? ?
The newspaper too is the favorite habitat of the anatomical .
Not without good reason has the anatomical been called jocular journalese .
Such items recall the California journalist who reported an accident involving a movie star : `` The area in which Miss N -- was injured is spectacularly scenic '' .
The double meaning in the anatomical made it a familiar vaudeville device , as in the gags of Weber and Fields .
Apart from journalese and vaudeville gags , the anatomical is also found in jocular literature .
There are many grammatical misconstructions other than dangling modifiers and anatomicals which permit two different interpretations .
Another specimen of such double-entendre is illustrated by a woman in a department store .
This saleslady was a failure in the dress department and was transferred to the shoe department .
The comic indefinite comprises an extensive class of comedy .
This baffling lack of distinct details recalls the secretary whose employer was leaving the office and told her what to answer if anyone called in his absence .
An old-fashioned mother said to her modern daughter , `` You must have gotten in quite late last night , dear .
No less ambiguous was the indefinity of a certain clergyman's sermon .
Indefinite reference also carries double-meaning where an allusion to one person or thing seems to refer to another .
This is not unlike the order received by the sergeant of an army motor pool : `` Four trucks to Fort Mason gym , 7:30 tonight , for hauling girls to dance .
A politician was approached by a man seeking the office of a minor public official who had just died .
The manager of a movie theater received a telephone call from a woman who was equally indefinite .
Another brand of indefinite reference arises out of the use of the double verb .
The moonlit night was made for romance , and he had been looking at her soulfully for some time .
Replies to requests for character reference are notorious for their evasive double-entendre .
Another less ambiguous case read as follows : `` The bearer of this letter has served me for two years to his complete satisfaction .
In the comedy of indefinite reference , it-wit occupies a prominent place because of its frequent occurrence .
Two friends were talking .
It-wit is a misnomer because it covers slips as well as wit .
I called the other afternoon on my old friend , Graves Moreland , the Anglo-American literary critic -- his mother was born in Ohio -- who lives alone in a fairy-tale cottage on the Upson Downs , raising hell and peacocks , the former only when the venerable gentleman becomes an angry old man about the state of literature or something else that is dwindling and diminishing , such as human stature , hope , and humor .
My unscientific friend does not believe that human stature is measurable in terms of speed , momentum , weightlessness , or distance from earth , but is a matter of the development of the human mind .
`` I have come to talk with you about the future of humor and comedy '' , I told him , at which he started slightly , and then made us each a stiff drink , with a trembling hand .
`` I seem to remember '' , he said , `` that in an interview ten years ago you gave humor and comedy five years to live .
`` I was wrong '' , I admitted .
`` I woke up this morning '' , Moreland said , `` paraphrasing Lewis Carroll .
`` Can I bear it '' ? ?
`` Just barely '' , he said , and repeated his paraphrase : `` The time has come '' , the walrus said , `` To speak of manic things , Of shots and shouts , and sealing dooms Of commoners and kings '' .
Moreland fixed us each another drink , and said , `` For God's sake , tell me something truly amusing '' .
`` I'll try '' , I said , and sat for a moment thinking .
`` What's the matter with the music '' ? ?
`` It doesn't drown out the dialogue '' , I explained .
`` Let's talk about books '' , Moreland said .
`` There is non-fiction and non non-fiction '' , I said .
`` If we cannot tell evil , horror , and insanity from nonsense , what is the future of humor and comedy '' ? ?
`` Cryptic '' , I said .
`` I know what you mean '' , Moreland sighed .
`` We no longer have Tom Moore's and Longfellow's ' heart for any fate ' , either '' , I said .
`` Moore and Longfellow didn't have the fate that faces us '' , Moreland said .
`` The heart '' , I said finally , `` is now either in the throat or the mouth or the stomach or the shoes .
`` You have visited England five times in the past quarter-century , I believe '' , my host said .
`` I would say depressed , not impressed '' , I told him .
`` Do you think we need a new Henry James to re-explore the Anglo-American scene '' ? ?
`` But you must have heard it said that the drawing-room disappeared forever with the somnolent years of James and the antic heyday of Coward .
`` If you are trying to get us out of the brothel , the dustbin , the kitchen sink , and the tawdry living-room , you are probably wasting your time '' , Moreland told me .
`` Furiouser and furiouser '' , I said .
Moreland sat brooding for a full minute , during which I made each of us a new drink .
`` Be careful of the word ' gay ' , for it , too , has undergone a change .
My host went over and stared out the window at his peacocks ; ;
`` Oh , that is demonstrable '' , I told him .
`` That is only partly non-nonsense '' , he began .
`` If you saw the drama called Rhinoceros '' , I said , `` think of the effect it would have on an audience of rhinos when the actor on stage suddenly begins turning into a rhinoceros .
`` You think the Russians are getting ahead of us in comedy '' ? ?
`` Non-God , no '' , I said .
`` Such as '' ? ?
`` Such as ' sending the cat to guard the mice ' , or ' the falcon to protect the dove ' , or most terribly sharp of all , ' the human being to save humanity ' '' .
`` You and I have fallen out of literature into politics '' , Moreland observed .
`` What a nasty fall was there '' ! !
Moreland went over to stare at his peacocks again , and then came back and sat down , restively .
`` The human ego being what it is '' , I put in , `` science fiction has always assumed that the creatures on the planets of a thousand larger solar systems than ours must look like gigantic tube-nosed fruit bats .
`` Now we are leaving humor and comedy behind again '' , Moreland protested .
`` Not in the largest sense of the words '' , I said .
`` There was also Gott strafe Angleterre '' , Moreland reminded me , `` and Carthago delenda est , or if you will , Deus strafe Carthage .
`` Great satire has always been clearly written and readily understandable '' , I said .
One day , the children had wanted to get up onto General Burnside's horse .
He was very rude .
Arlene had a hard voice , too , this time .
The policeman got a confused , funny look on his face , and he had answered kind of politely , `` Now , look here , lady : I know you got to entertain these kids and all .
Arlene was so ashamed that she hung her head when she said , `` Yes , sir '' .
The policeman walked on , but he looked back once .
That had happened on the day when two other unusual things had occurred .
`` Never mind '' , Arlene had said , after the policeman had left , having pursued the usual unco-operative course of grownups .
`` What is it '' ? ?
`` Just you wait '' , advised Arlene , echoing the dialogue in a recent British movie .
And when they had got to their little lawn , they had had a most twirlingly magnificent time .
`` Just you wait '' , said Arlene again , as though she were discovering the pleasantly tingling insinuations of that handy little sturdy statement .
`` Is it anything like cooked-over oatmeal '' ? ?
`` Not the least bit '' , Arlene snapped .
`` Now '' , said Arlene , eventually , making them both sit in formation on a big root of a live oak , the sort of root that divided itself and made their bottoms sag down and feel comfortable .
The children looked at each other and sagged their bottoms down even more comfortably than ever .
Then , Arlene threw herself backwards and wiggled in a way that was just wonderful .
`` I'm General Burnside's horse , upside down '' , Arlene said , sort of gaspingly , for her : even she had to breathe kind of funny when she was in that position .
`` This time '' , Arlene said , and she even kept on wiggling a little bit while she was just talking , `` you're going to tell me what I am and what I'm doing .
This time , it was so grand ; ;
The other remarked , in a happy laughter , `` That's a funny old horse '' .
The first one said , `` He sure does shake .
Then there was the General kissing his wife .
Then , they had to get up and be General Burnside .
`` You ought to shake '' , Arlene advised them .
That helped a great deal .
They were a little late in getting home .
`` I'm sorry , Mrs. Minks '' , Arlene said in a tone so low you could hardly hear it .
My mother constituted herself the voice of all of us .
`` Yes , ma'am '' , the children chorused heartily .
We couldn't help laughing .
The children rushed off to get rid of their sweaters ; ;
`` She really is a dear little thing '' , my mother agreed .
Later on , the children told her further about somersaulting .
Then , my mother blushed at this small lie ; ;
Arlene became indispensable ; ;
A friend of my father's came to dinner .
He liked children , in a loathsome kind of way ; ;
This evening , they were pushed in from the breakfast room , with odds and ends of dessert distributed over them .
They were pushed gently into the room by Arlene -- whose only part appearing were hands that crept quickly back around to the kitchen side of the door .
`` Tell Mr. Gorboduc what you're doing these days '' , my mother advised the children , ceremonially .
There was an air of revolt about the children -- even irreverence for their own principles .
`` We go to the park with this nice lady '' , one of them said .
This happy bulletin convulsed Mr. Gorboduc .
One of the children maneuvered out of range of the poking index finger .
`` No '' , he said .
Mr. Gorboduc took a swig of his sherry .
Mr. Gorboduc was finally in command of his mind again .
`` We bump '' , one said ; ;
My mother was beside herself with curiosity .
My uncle looked at Mr. Gorboduc .
Mr. Gorboduc looked down .
Pueri aquam de silvas ad agricolas portant , a delightful vignette set in the unforgettable epoch of pre-Punic War Rome .
The Albany Civic Opera's presentation of Spumoni's immortal Il Sevigli del Spegititgninino , with guest contralto Hattie Sforzt .
After a `` busy '' overture , the curtain rises on a farm scene -- the Ranavan Valley in northern Maine .
The Dharma Dictionary , a list of highly unusual terms used in connection with Eurasian proto-senility cults .
The breeze and chancellor Neitzbohr , a movie melodrama that concerns the attempts of a West German politician to woo a plaster cast of the Apollo Belvedere .
The music of Bini SalFininistas , capital LP Ab63711-r , one of the rare recordings of this titanic , yet unsung , composer .
Aging but still precocious , French feline enfant terrible Francoisette Lagoon has succeeded in shocking jaded old Paris again , this time with a sexy ballet scenario called The Lascivious Interlude , the story of a nymphomaniac trip-hammer operator who falls hopelessly in love with a middle-aged steam shovel .
Ever since Bambi , and , more recently , Born Free , there have been a lot of books about animals , but few compare with Max Fink's wry , understated , charming , and immensely readable My Friend , the Quizzical Salamander .
Opera in the Grand Tradition , along with mah-jongg , seems to be staging a well-deserved comeback .
The Champs Elysees is literally littered this summer with the prostrate bodies of France's beat-up beatnik jeunes filles .
The battle of the drib-drool continues , but most of New York's knowing sophisticates of Abstract Expressionism are stamping their feet impatiently in expectation of V ( for Vindication ) Day , September first , when Augustus Quasimodo's first one-man show opens at the Guggenheim .
`` I paint the nothing '' , he said once to Franz Kline and myself , `` the nothing that is behind the something , the inexpressible , unpaintable ' tick ' in the unconscious , the ' spirit ' of the moment resting forever , suspended like a huge balloon , in non-time '' .
Dear Sirs : Let me begin by clearing up any possible misconception in your minds , wherever you are .
As you've doubtless forgotten the circumstances in the press of more recent depredations , permit me to recapitulate them briefly .
So much for the tiresome facts , as familiar to you , I'm sure , as to the constables and state troopers who followed in your wake .
First of all , the six figures of the Buddha you heisted -- four Siamese heads , a black obsidian statuette in the earth-touching position , and a large brass figure of the Dying Buddha on a teakwood base .
Whether the pair of Sudanese ivory carvings you lifted really possess the juju to turn your livers to lead , as a dealer in Khartoum assured me , I am not competent to say .
Now , you no doubt regard the preceding as pap ; ;
However one looks at it , therefore , I'd say that your horoscope for this autumn is the reverse of rosy .
Compassionately yours ,
S. J. Perelman
revulsion in the desert
